
SAR AT 205: Athletic Training Practicum I
	Initial exposure to the role and skills of an athletic trainer. Includes certification in Emergency Cardiac Care. 1 credit

SAR AT 304: Athletic Training Practicum II
	This clinical course integrates the fundamental principles of patient care, evidence-based practice, cultural competence, ethical decision making, and communication with students' clnical education experiences completed under the supervision and guidance of a preceptor. The required clinical education experience must be between 80 and 120 hours.

SAR AT 305: Athletic Training Practicum III
	This clinical course builds on content covered in AT 304: Athletic Training Practicum I with a focus on integrating foundations of professional practice, principles of patient care, and evidence-based practice, with students' clinical experiences completed under the supervision and guidance of a preceptor. The required clinical education experience must be between 80 and 120 hours.

SAR AT 355: Foundations of Athletic Training
	This is the first course in a two- part series on exam and diagnosis, focusing on acute care in athletic training. Emphasis will be placed on the role of the athletic trainer in prevention, diagnosis, and referral of patients in acute distress. This course lays the foundation of evaluation with concentration on primary and secondary surveys particularly during emergency situations. Clinical decision making and hands-on skills are emphasized.

SAR AT 356: Examination and Diagnosis of Orthopedic Conditions
	Evaluation and diagnosis of patients with upper and lower extremity orthopedic conditions; also includes immediate management of orthopedic injuries.

SAR AT 404: Clinical Athletic Training I
	Continued athletic training experience under the supervision and guidance of a program-approved health provider in an approved setting. This course includes content relating to examination of the head and spine and situational orthopedic and taping assessments. The required clinical education experience must be between 156 and 244 hours.

SAR AT 405: Clinical Athletic Training II
	Continued athletic training experience under the supervision and guidance of a program-approved health provider in an approved setting. This course includes content relating to the examination and management of patients with non-orthopedic conditions. A focus on developing proficiency in the examination of patients with orthopedic conditions is accomplished via situational orthopedic assessments. The required clinical education experience must be between 156 and 244 hours.

SAR AT 430: Orthopedic Rehabilitation
	This course will identify various approaches to assessing patients of all levels of function and implementing appropriate, evidence-based, interventions aimed at improving and enhancing that level of function throughout a performance spectrum. 

SAR AT 432: Organization and Administration of Athletic Training
	An overview of administrative concepts and organization of health care facilities that provide athletic training services. A problem-solving approach to facility design, fiscal management, insurance and legal issues is used. 

SAR AT 497 (: Ind Study
	

SAR AT 504: Clinical Athletic Training III
	Continued athletic training experience under the supervision and guidance of a program-approved heath care provide in an approved setting. Course meets periodically for formal competency development. The required clinical education experience must be between 156 and 244 hours.

SAR AT 505: Clinical Athletic Training IV
	Continued athletic training experience under the supervision and guidance of a program-approved health care provider in an approved setting. Course meets periodically for formal competency development. The required clinical education experience must be between 156 and 244 hours.

SAR AT 506: Evidence-Based Practice:  Clinical Applications
	This course is intended to expand students' ability to appropriately use research literature to guide clinical decision making and practice. 

SAR AT 672 (: Patient-Oriented Evidence for Athletic Trainers
	The course, arranged to meet the needs of the individual student, is designed to provide the student with a substantial foundation in core knowledge and clinical application of the principles of evidence-based practice. Faculty will work with students to determine their baseline level of knowledge regarding foundations and application of EBP principles. Working from this baseline, specific learning objectives and expected outcomes will be determined.

SAR HP 150: Freshman Year Experience
	This course is designed to provide an orientation to freshmen about the college experience.  Expectations, guidelines and resources will be made available to aid freshmen in making informed decisions about the quality of their education while clarifying and enhancing the students' experiences with the Boston University community.  Interaction with faculty advisors and peer mentors is provided.

SAR HP 151: Introduction to the Health and Rehabilitation Professions
	Freshmen Seminar. Exploration of the roles and functions of the health and rehabilitation disciplines. Introduction to the health care system and its impact on society. Sargent students only.

SAR HP 220: Occupation and Health
	Exploration of the factors that influence how people spend their time, including their choice of activity and their ability to perform important and meaningful activities,  and of the impact of these occupations on health and well-being across the life course. 

SAR HP 252: Health and Disability Across the Lifespan
	Overview of healthy development across the lifespan followed by an examination of common conditions that typically begin in certain stages.  Each condition will be examined for its individual, group and systemic impacts.

SAR HP 320: Health Conditions across the Life Course
	Overview of medical and psychosocial aspects of selected chronic diseases, with a particular focus on the impact of the disease and its management on the person's daily life.

SAR HP 345: Introduction to Sports Medicine
	Intended for students interested in sports, coaching, medicine and exercise, this course provides an introduction to prevention of injury and illness, basic exercise principles and first aid for an active population. 
SAR HP 804: Practicum: Teaching in the Health Professions
		Supervised academic teaching in the health professions. Development and implementation of a teaching unit. Critique of teaching styles. Development of a teaching portfolio.		

SAR HP 839: Biomedical Innovation
	The subject of the course is the translation of medical technologies into new products and services for the healthcare system. The course begins with a rigorous study of intellectual property, licensing and the core aspects of planning, creating, funding and building new entrepreneurial ventures. Concepts and tools are presented for assessing new technologies and their potential to be the basis for a new entrepreneurial venture. Comparisons will be made of how technologies can be sourced and commercialized out of three very different environments: universities, national laboratories and corporate laboratories. Cross-disciplinary teams of students will be formed which will evaluate translational research projects currently being developed at Boston University and their potential for transformation into a start-up company to commercialize the technology, providing a unique linkage between the scientific research activities of the university and the professional schools. Each week there will be a case study which will discuss examples of both success and failure in technology commercialization. Some of these case studies examine Boston University life sciences spin-out companies and the founders and CEO's of these ventures will share their experiences with the class.		

SAR HP 905: Directed Research: MS
		Professionally significant research study, resulting in thesis presented in full length or journal article format. Thesis should be independent project incorporating rigorous application of scientific inquiry and writing skills. See degree requirements for specific programs. 		

SAR HS 201: Introduction to Nutrition
	Reviews basic concepts in nutrition including the function of nutrients and the effects of deficiencies and excesses. These basic concepts are then applied to current issues throughout the lifecycle including the role of diet in malnutrition, heart disease, cancer, diabetes,and weight management. Dietary guidelines for prevention of chronic disease are stressed. 		

SAR HS 210: Introduction to Critical Inquiry
	This course demonstrates access to information resources in the biomedical sciences, including hard copy, on-line databases (e.g., LexisNexis, PubMed, OVID), and web searching and how to critically evaluate these information sources. Classes are hands-on learning using laptops.		

SAR HS 230: Food Science
           			An in-depth didactic and laboratory review of the physical and chemical properties of carbohydrates, proteins, fats and water. Each macronutrient is discussed from its smallest starting molecule to its complex role in food items. Other related topics include food safety and food-borne illness, food preservation and processing, culinary techniques, food regulations and standards, food additives, food technology, and subjective evaluation of food. The laboratory requirement applies the food science principles through hands-on experiments in the kitchen setting. 4 credits, 2nd semester		

SAR HS 251: Human Nutrition Science
           			This course provides an introduction to nutrition and focuses on the relationship between diet and health. Basic scientific information is presented in preparation for discussion of applied issues such as weight loss, eating disorders, prevention of chronic disease, diet and exercise and vegetarian diets. Emphasis is placed on translation of current advice to actual food choices. 4 credits, either semester		

SAR HS 281: Nutrition Throughout the Life Cycle
           			This course focuses on the changing nutritional requirements from infancy, childhood, and adolescence throughout the geriatric years. Nutritional needs specific to pregnancy and lactation will be discussed. Emphasis is placed on understanding the behavioral, socioeconomic, and cultural factors associated with meeting nutrition requirements throughout the life span. 4 credits, 2nd semester		

SAR HS 300: Epidemiology I
           			Epidemiology examines the distribution of health and diseases across the population, and the factors that impact health. This course covers the principles and methods used in epidemiology, particularly as it relates to public health, including the types of study designs used in health care research and the interpretation of research studies. The final portion of the course focuses on critical evaluation of public health literature (journal articles). 4 credits, either semester		

SAR HS 310: Management of Food Service Systems
           			This course provides the foundational knowledge of food service management viewed as a system. Management of human resources, quantity food production, menu development and financial accountability will be discussed as well as regulatory and other controls that influence the function of the system. 4 credits, 1st semester.		

SAR HS 320: Genomics in Public Health
           			This course is focused on studying the impact of the genetics and genomics, and their relationships with behavior, psychosocial factors, and environment on population health and diseases during the post-Human Genome Project era.  Concepts and methods in molecular biology, immunology, and epidemiology will also be further discussed.  The class will examine the effects of the advancement of high-throughput innovations in scientific discoveries on public health policies. Critical analysis of primary research articles, in-class discussion, and team projects will be fundamental mode of class instruction. Prior knowledge of epidemiology and genetics is highly recommended. 2nd semester, 4 credits. 		

SAR HS 325: Introduction to Global Health
	This course will provide students with an overview of the complex social, economic, political, environmental, and biological factors that structure the origins, consequences, and possible treatments of illness worldwide, as well as the promotion of health. Students will learn about the major themes and concepts shaping the interdisciplinary field of global health, and will gain an understanding of solutions to health challenges that have been successfully implemented in different parts of the world. Major topics will include the linkages between global health and economic development, the global burden of disease, key actors in global health, and lessons learned from the HIV/AIDS pandemic.		

SAR HS 342: Exercise Physiology
           			Application of physiological principles under different exercise conditions. Integration of the body systems in performance of exercise, work and sports; immediate and long-range effects of these activities on the body. Laboratory includes the measurement of physiological parameters under exercise conditions. 		

SAR HS 345: Global Environmental Public Health
	Environmental health is associated with recognizing, assessing, understanding and controlling the impacts of people in their environment and the impacts of the environment on the public health. The complexity of the problems requires multidisciplinary approaches.  This course will provide an introduction to the principles, methods, and issues related to global environmental health. This course examines health issues, scientific understanding of causes, and possible future approaches to control of the major environmental health problems internationally. Topics include how the body reacts to environmental pollutants; physical, chemical, and biological agents of environmental contamination; vectors for dissemination (air, water, soil); solid and hazardous waste; susceptible populations; bio-markers and risk analysis; the scientific basis for policy decisions; risk communication; and, emerging global environmental health problems.		

SAR HS 360: Muscle Biology in Health and Disease
           			An integrative approach to understanding the biology of muscle in development, exercise, injury, aging, and disease. Students will get a comprehensive overview of muscle biology and muscle disease; develop skills to review and research primary literature; and have an opportunity to develop oral research presentation skills. This class is designed for upper level undergraduates and graduate students.		

SAR HS 361: Introduction to Computational Neuroscience of Speech, Language, and Hearing
           			Introduces the foundations of auditory perception including the mammalian auditory pathway, speech and language perception and links with speech production, auditory scene analysis, and music perception, from a computational perspective. Laboratory computer assignments elucidate functional properties of these systems.		

SAR HS 363: Global Health: Beyond Germs and Genes
	This course will focus on the social determinants of health--the conditions in which people are born, grow, live, work, age and die. We will examine case studies from around the globe that reveal  the ways in which health inequities are shaped by the distribution of resources, money, and power at the local, national and global level, and the critical role played by social policies in reducing or exacerbating these inequities.  		

SAR HS 366: Community Nutrition
           			This course will cover the dramatic effect of the socioeconomic status, cultural and psychological factors on food choices. Students will learn how to target populations, deliver effective nutrition interventions in the community, and perform a community-based needs assessment. Students will also obtain a working knowledge of federal, state, and local assistance programs. Principles related to nutrition education, program planning, and outcome evaluations will be discussed. A community intervention project will be assigned. 4 credits, 1st semester		

SAR HS 369: Gross Human Anatomy
           			Integrative approach to the musculoskeletal, peripheral nervous, and circulatory systems of the human body. Regional approach is used to present lectures with the use of projected drawings, films, slides, and demonstrations. Weekly labs reinforce the lectures by a study of osteology, dissected cadavers, and live anatomy palpations. 		

SAR HS 370: Neuroanatomy and Neurophysiology
           			Lecture and laboratory related to the detailed study of development, morphology, internal configuration, and functions, and pathological deficits of the peripheral and central nervous system in humans. 		

SAR HS 375: Cardiopulmonary Pathophysiology
           			Overview of anatomy and physiology of the cardiovascular and respiratory systems during normal and pathological conditions. Pathophysiology of exercise performance in cardiovascular and respiratory diseases. Adaptations to physical conditioning in these diseases.		

SAR HS 384: Medical Nutrition Therapy I
           			This course covers the pathophysiology of disease as it relates to nutrition care, and the Medical Nutrition Therapy appropriate for the care and management of that disease. Nutrition screening, nutrition assessment and nutrition care plan formulation will be discussed for the person with cardiovascular disease, hypertension, diabetes, obesity and other medical conditions. Documentation and monitoring/evaluation of the nutrition care plan will be discussed as well as the translation of care to the patient's menu and therapeutic diet plan. 4 credits, 1st semester		

SAR HS 385: Medical Nutrition Therapy II
           			This course is a continuation of SARHS384. This course focuses on medical nutrition therapy for various disease states, including gastrointestinal disease, kidney disease, cancer, AIDS, cystic fibrosis, and inborn errors of metabolism. This course also covers the metabolic response to trauma and critical illness and the importance of nutritional therapy in these states. The use of parenteral and enteral nutrition, intravenous catheters, and feeding tubes will be covered. Diet and drug interactions as well as alternative medicine and herbal therapy will be discussed. Students will use case studies to learn to apply their knowledge of nutrition care to the treatment of patients with various diseases. 4 credits, 2nd semester		

SAR HS 395: Food, Supplements, and Consumer Health
           			Students will conduct a detailed "aisle by aisle" review of foods available in today's marketplace with special attention to functional foods, foods for special dietary use, and foods modified through technology. Students will gain an understanding of the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act and become familiar with methods for evaluating dietary supplements with regard to product quality, safety, effectiveness, and doping status.  The influence of nutrition marketing on consumer purchasing patterns will be explored.  Students will apply the knowledge and skills gained throughout the course by comparing the nutrient content of specific foods and dietary supplements to the nutrient needs of consumers according to the Dietary Reference Intakes. 		

SAR HS 396: Dietary Interventions and Public Health
           			Students will gain an understanding of the social ecological model of health and how individual dietary behavior is influenced by factors in the environments in which they live, including family, social networks, organizations, communities, and societies. Students will become familiar with the use of theories in dietary interventions and the steps involved in developing theory-and-evidence-based programs that use an ecological approach to assess and intervene in diet-related health problems. Resources that use the systematic review process to establish evidence-based recommendations based on research findings will be used to examine the effectiveness of interventions to promote healthy eating at the population and policy levels.		

SAR HS 405: Health Science Practicum
           			Practical experience in health care setting (health policy, administrative, constituent advocacy) in hospital, clinic, public health setting, government or non-governmental health agency setting. 2 or 4 credits.		

SAR HS 410: Field Experience: Human Physiology
           			Practical experience in a research lab, clinic, community, or industrial setting, as appropriate. 		

SAR HS 412: Field Experience: Human Physiology II
           			 Continuation of SAR HS410		

SAR HS 415: Undergraduate Nutrition Practicum
           			For senior nutrition majors only. Practical experience working with a Registered Dietitian or related health care professional in a community, medical or private practice setting. 		

SAR HS 420: Applications of Food Service Management
           			This course provides students the opportunity to observe the food service management concepts learned in HS310/510 in a variety of "real world" operational settings. Students in this course will also create their own food service operation in written project and presentation format. 4 credits, 2nd semester		

SAR HS 422: Ethics in Health Care
	Available in Dublin Health Science program only This course provides an introduction to ethics and common ethical issues in health care. Lectures will address several topics specific to biomedical ethics, including end of life issues, reproductive technologies, and issues in biomedical research. These issues will be used to examine ethical reasoning, ethical theories and principles, and the use of cases and narratives in ethics. Special attention will be paid to developing skills of ethical analysis through an examination of philosophical arguments. When appropriate, any distinctively Irish dimensions to the ethical issues or cases will be examined. 4 cr. (Offered in the fall only.) 		

SAR HS 425: Healthcare Policy and Practice in Ireland
	Available in Dublin Health Science program only This course introduces students to the organization and delivery of healthcare.  It helps students develop a critical appreciation of the dynamics of healthcare policy making and the role of healthcare professionals within the sector.  It examines healthcare finance and the role and influence of the insurance and pharmaceutical industries. It also examines the social, environmental, and behavioral factors that affect healthcare across different social cohorts. It concludes by looking at healthcare regulation and reform.  		

SAR HS 430: Global Maternal & Child Health
	This course will provide a global perspective on maternal and child health. Major topics will include early life influences on later life health, maternity care practices worldwide, and the role of both human evolutionary history and sociopolitical structures in shaping health outcomes for women and children		

SAR HS 440: Qualitative Research Strategies in Global Health
	Qualitative research methods are increasingly used in public health, and provide valuable insights into the local perspectives of study populations. This course provides practical strategies and methods for using qualitative research and includes the basic assumptions, approach and rationale for making qualitative research decisions, framing qualitative research questions, and designing appropriate research strategies. Examples will be drawn from current global health issues. 		

SAR HS 450: Non-Infectious Diseases
           			This course will examine the four most common preventable non-infectious diseases (diabetes, cardiovascular disease, cancer, upper respiratory diseases), which accounted for nearly 60% of all deaths in the world and 80% in the developing world. Estimates predict that the "second wave" of non-infectious diseases in the coming years will have a detrimental impact on global health and economies. Despite the enormous global burden of non-infectious (or non-communicable) diseases, adequate programs for prevention and treatment do not exist and challenges faced are complex. This course will focus on the preventable risk factors (diet, exercise, tobacco, alcohol, lifestyle, etc), growing burden of disease, and current issues and challenges in control of the four most common diseases, and include discussion, field trips to examine the issues, and the ability for students to be a part of the solution through design of their own intervention. 		

SAR HS 463: Germs and Genes
			

SAR HS 467: Research Methods in Nutrition
           			This course provides an overview of methods used in nutrition research, including dietary assessment methods, indicators of nutritional status, analysis and presentation of dietary data, statistical interpretation, and clinical research methods. The course includes lectures, a field trip to a Boston-area clinical research center, and hands-on experience with nutritional assessment and anthropometrics techniques. Students participate in in-class discussions of published research articles to learn techniques for deriving evidence-based recommendations for clinical practice. Upon completion of this course, students will be able to read, interpret, and understand the findings from clinical research studies and understand the fundamental tools that are used by nutrition researchers.		

SAR HS 470: Topics in Public Health
           			This course addresses new and emerging issues in the field of public health through interactive case study method and the medical literature. The format is small group discussion. Topics vary each semester; but include infectious diseases (HIV/AIDS), maternal and child health, chronic diseases (obesity, mental illness), health and human rights, and international health. 4 credits, 2nd semester		

SAR HS 475: Disability Advocacy and the Law: Theory, Practice and Real World Challenges and Actions
           			This interdisciplinary course provides the student an exciting understanding of disability advocacy, integrating theory and practical coursework. It emphasizes the role of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and its supporting Amendment Act (ADAAA) as the basis for disability advocacy through theory and direct experience; how advocacy occurs among disability stakeholders (the nation's public health leadership, elected officials, lawyers, judicial, health care, education and social service systems, and providers, family members, persons with disabilities, media, and the public). The class provides hands-on learning on the challenges of non-available disability-based accommodations along with the development of and opportunity to implement a corrective action plan. 4 credits, 2nd semester		

SAR HS 486: Applied Nutrition Care
           			This course provides a review of and an opportunity to implement all aspects of the nutritional care process. Through classroom discussion of case studies as well as experiences at in- and out- patient facilities, students will gain expertise in the provision of nutritional care. 4 credits, 1st semester		

SAR HS 488: Applied Nutrition Counseling
           			This course focuses on developing communication and counseling skills in preparation for working with nutrition clients. Topics include: Conducting a nutrition counseling session, promoting sustainable behavior change, counseling clients of various age groups and cultural backgrounds and dealing with difficult patients. In addition, students are introduced to different perspectives in nutrition counseling including motivational interviewing, mindful eating and emotion-based-counseling. The emphasis of the course will be classroom discussion, observation of registered dietitians conducting group counseling sessions and application of practical counseling skills with clients in the community. 2 credits, 1st semester		

SAR HS 495: Directed Study
           			Educational experiences and projects performed outside the standard curricular offerings. Undergraduate student completes a defined project under the supervision of a researcher who is not a BU faculty member. 		

SAR HS 497: Independent Study
           			Project must be proposed in writing before registration and completed with relative independence under guidance of a supervising faculty member in the human physiology program. Final report submitted before the end of the semester.		

SAR HS 500: Food Science
           			An in-depth didactic and laboratory review of the physical and chemical properties of carbohydrates, proteins, fats and water. Each macronutrient is discussed from its smallest starting molecule to its complex role in food items. Other related topics include food safety and food-borne illness, food preservation and processing, culinary techniques, food regulations and standards, food additives, food technology, and subjective evaluation of food. The laboratory requirement applies the food science principles through hands-on experiments in the kitchen setting. 4 credits, 2nd semester		

SAR HS 510: Management of Food Service
           			This course provides the foundational knowledge of food service management viewed as a system. Management of human resources, quantity food production, menu development and financial accountability will be discussed as well as regulatory and other controls that influence the function of the system. 4 credits, 1st semester		

SAR HS 520: Applications of Food Service Management
           			This course provides students the opportunity to observe the food service management concepts learned in HS310/510 in a variety of "real world" operational settings. Students in this course will also create their own food service operation in written project and presentation format. 4 credits, 2nd semester		

SAR HS 542: Exercise Physiology
           			Application of physiological principles under different exercise conditions. Integration of the body systems in performance of exercise, work, and sports; immediate and long-range effects of these activities on the body. Laboratory includes the measurement of physiological parameters under extreme conditions.		

SAR HS 551: Human Nutrition Science
		This course provides an introduction to nutrition and focuses on the relationship between diet and health. Basic scientific information is presented in preparation for a discussion of applied issues such as weight loss, eating disorders, prevention of chronic disease, diet and exercise and vegetarian diets. Emphasis is placed on translation of current advice to actual food choices. 4 credits, either semester		

SAR HS 560: Muscle Biology in Health and Disease
           			An integrative approach to understanding the biology of muscle in development, exercise, injury, aging, and disease. Students will get a comprehensive overview of muscle biology and muscle disease; develop skills to review and research primary literature; and have an opportunity to develop oral research presentation skills. This class is designed for upper level undergraduates and graduate students.		

SAR HS 561: Nutrition Throughout the Life Cycle
           			This course focuses on the changing nutritional requirements from infancy, childhood, and adolescence throughout the geriatric years. Nutritional needs specific to pregnancy and lactation will be discussed. Emphasis is placed on understanding the behavioral, socioeconomic, and cultural factors associated with meeting nutrition requirements throughout the life span. 4 credits, 2nd semester		

SAR HS 564: Global Health: Beyond Germs and Genes
	This course will focus on the social determinants of health--the conditions in which people are born, grow, live, work, age and die. We will examine case studies from around the globe that reveal the ways in which health inequities are shaped by the distribution of resources, money, and power at the local, national and global level, and the critical role played by social policies in reducing or exacerbating these inequities. (Meets with SAR HS 363)		

SAR HS 566: Community Nutrition
           			This course will cover the dramatic effect of the socioeconomic status, cultural and psychological factors on food choices. Students will learn how to target populations, deliver effective nutrition interventions in the community, and perform a community-based needs assessment. Students will also obtain a working knowledge of federal, state, and local assistance programs. Principles related to nutrition education, program planning, and outcome evaluations will be discussed. A community intervention project will be assigned. 4 credits, 1st semester		

SAR HS 567: Research Methods in Nutrition
		This course provides an overview of methods used in nutrition research, including dietary assessment methods, indicators of nutritional status, analysis and presentation of dietary data, statistical interpretation, and clinical research methods. The course includes lectures, a field trip to a Boston-area clinical research center, and hands-on experience with nutritional assessment and anthropometrics techniques. Students participate in in-class discussions of published research articles to learn techniques for deriving evidence-based recommendations for clinical practice. upon completion of this course, students will be able to read, interpret, and understand the findings from clinical research studies and understand the fundamental tools that are used by nutrition researchers. 2 credits, 1st semester		

SAR HS 575: Cardiopulmonary Pathophysiology
           			An overview of anatomy and physiology of the cardiovascular and respiratory systems during normal and pathological conditions. Exercise and other stress in the precipitation, detection, prevention, and rehabilitation of abnormal states.		

SAR HS 581: Gross Human Anatomy
           			Regional approach to the musculoskeletal, peripheral nervous, and circulatory systems of the human body. Laboratories reinforce the lectures by a study of osteology, prosected cadavers and live anatomy palpations. 		

SAR HS 582: Neuroanatomy and Neurophysiology
           			Lecture and laboratory related to the detailed study of the development, morphology, internal configuration, functions, and pathological deficits of the peripheral and central nervous system in humans. 		

SAR HS 584: Medical Nutrition Therapy I
           			This course will cover the pathophysiology of diseases as they relate to nutrition care. Techniques of nutritional assessment will be taught and applied to the assessment of patients with cardiovascular disease, hypertension, diabetes, obesity, disorders of the central nervous system, and pulmonary disorders. Documentation, interpretation of medical terminology, determination of special nutritional needs, and translation to menu and diet plans will be the focus of the course.		

SAR HS 585: Medical Nutrition Therapy II
           			This course is a continuation of SARHS584. This course focuses on medical nutrition therapy for various disease states, including gastrointestinal disease, kidney disease, cancer, AIDS, cystic fibrosis, and inborn errors of metabolism. This course also covers the metabolic response to trauma and critical illness and the importance of nutritional therapy in these states. The use of parenteral and enteral nutrition, intravenous catheters, and feeding tubes will be covered. Diet and drug interactions as well as alternative medicine and herbal therapy will be discussed. Students will use case studies to learn to apply their knowledge of nutrition care to the treatment of patients with various diseases. 4 credits, 2nd semester		

SAR HS 586: Applied Nutritional Care
           			This course provides a review of and an opportunity to implement all aspects of the nutritional care process. Through classroom discussion of case studies as well as experiences at in- and out-patient facilities, students will gain expertise in the provision of nutritional care.		

SAR HS 703: Field Experience in Nutrition
SAR HS 704: Issues in Delivery of Dietetic Services
           			This series of lectures are designed to provide students with information relevant to the practice of dietetics. ADA Standards of Practice/Standards of Professional Performance, the ADA Code of Ethics, the registration exam, third-party payment, and other issues salient to the dietetics practitioner are presented and discussed. 2 credits, 1st semester		

SAR HS 710: Graduate Field Experience: Applied Anatomy and Physiology
		Practical experience in a research laboratory, clinic, community or individual setting as appropriate. 		

SAR HS 742: Nutrition and Disease Prevention: a life course approach
           			Focuses on the etiology of major nutrition problems in the U.S. population and the role of the diet in disease prevention and treatment. Included are nutrition issues facing at-risk populations within our society, including pregnant and lactating women, infants and children, and the elderly. The role of diet in the development/prevention of cardiac disease, cancer, osteoporosis, and other chronic diseases is discussed. Students are expected to integrate a knowledge of normal physiologic changes, biochemistry, pathophysiology, metabolism, and nutrient requirements throughout the life cycle with recent advances in the field of nutrition.		

SAR HS 750: Analysis of the Physiological Literature
           			In this course, peer reviewed publications in the area of physiology will be critically evaluated. Scientific ethics and the process of review and publication of physiological manuscripts will be discussed. The classes will be a mix of didactic information and group discussion. Methodological issues covered will include study design, techniques used and interpretation of research findings. Students completing this course will understand the principles underlying preparation and publication of scientific manuscripts and will be able to apply these principles as they read the scientific literature and participate in research projects related to thesis work. 		

SAR HS 775: Advanced Clinical Nutrition
           			The role of nutrition in the treatment of acute and chronic disease will be the focus of the course. The course will begin with an introduction to understanding nutritional assessment, body composition and energy expenditure methodology and the use of these methods in clinical practice. Current research pertinent to the nutritional interventions in the treatment of disease will be discussed. The student is expected to integrate basic knowledge of physiology, biochemistry, and metabolism in the application of nutritional therapy and review of the current literature. 4 credits, 2nd semester		

SAR HS 776: Nutritional Epidemiology
           			This course examines epidemiologic methods for investigating the role of diet in long-term health. Students learn to critically review the epidemiologic evidence relating diet, anthropometry, and physical activity to heart disease, cancer, and other chronic health conditions including obesity and diabetes. The methodological issues covered include epidemiologic study design; dietary and nutritional status assessment; issues of bias, confounding, effect modification and measurement error; and interpretation of research findings including an understanding of statistical modeling. Students participate weekly in critical reviews of published research. Students completing this course will understand the principles of epidemiology and will be able to apply them as they read the scientific literature and participate in nutrition-related research. 		

SAR HS 783: Metabolic Regulation in Clinical Nutrition
		A review of metabolism as the basis for understanding human nutritional requirements. Metabolism of carbohydrate, protein, and fat, as well as the regulation of these processes during various physiologic states are examined.  Application of these principles to current topics in both normal and therapeutic nutrition is discussed.		

SAR HS 785: Research in Clinical Nutrition
           			This course teaches students to prepare a mock National Institutes of Health (NIH) research grant proposal that would be used to compete for research funding. Students are challenged to define a new area of research based on a critical review of existing literature on a specific nutrition-related health topic of personal interest. Course competencies include formulation of a testable research hypothesis and selection of an appropriate research design, study population, methodology, and analysis plan. This course helps students to refine their scientific writing skills, and introduces them to budget planning and ethical issues related to research involving human subjects. 		

SAR HS 789: Theory and Practice of Clinical Counseling
           			Lectures and supervised individual and group counseling experience. Focus is on appropriate skills for interviewing, stimulating behavior change, and conveying information. For students enrolled in the graduate nutrition program. 2 credits, 1st semester		

SAR HS 791: Directed Study and Research
           			For MS students conducting research projects, including thesis work, under faculty guidance. 		

SAR HS 793: Scholarly Paper
           			For MS students writing a scholarly paper under faculty guidance.		

SAR HS 811: Practicum: Nutrition
	Structured clinical learning experience for graduate nutrition students. Placement sites include in- and outpatient facilities, adult and pediatric hospitals, public health agencies, private agencies, newsletter agencies, and long-term care facilities. Variable credit, either semester		

SAR HS 901: Directed Study and Research
           			For doctoral students conducting dissertation work under the guidance of a faculty member.		

SAR HS 905: Dissertation Research
           			For doctoral students conducting dissertation work under guidance of faculty member.		

SAR OT 317: Professional Preparation Seminar for Occupational Therapy
           			Preparation for the OT graduate professional program through participation in a volunteer experience and critical discussion. Emphasis on developing independent and reflective learning, critical reasoning skills, and professional behaviors necessary for effective participation in the graduate-level curriculum. Students will examine key issues in health and disability, culture, and values as they influence occupational therapy practice. Includes both a seminar class and outside volunteer experience. 		

SAR OT 497: Independent Study
           			Individually supervised study for advanced student wishing to pursue a specialized area of interest in occupational therapy. Undergraduate level.		

SAR OT 500: Integrative Seminar I and LIFW
           			This graduate course in occupational therapy is the first integrative seminar in a 4-seminar sequence designed to enhance clinical reasoning processes by integrating knowledge from previous educational and work experiences with current courses and weekly fieldwork experiences. Using problem-based case scenarios, class discussion, classroom activities, fieldwork experiences and reflective journaling this seminar focuses on learning the foundations for professional socialization, group processes, therapeutic relationships, ethical practice and other professional issues for working with persons and populations of all ages with a variety of needs for occupational therapy services. Self-directed, collaborative learning and class participation are essential aspects of this seminar.		

SAR OT 501: Integrative Seminar II and LIFW
           			This course is the second in a four-seminar sequence designed to develop and enhance professional reasoning processes by integrating knowledge and skills from previous educational and work experiences and from concurrent OT courses with weekly fieldwork experiences. This seminar focuses on reasoning related to theories of learning and behavior change; the assessment, intervention, and documentation process; use of theory and research evidence in practice; therapeutic rapport and communication; and other professional topics and issues as they relate to working with persons and populations of all ages in a variety of OT practice contexts. Self-directed and collaborative learning, class participation, reflective writing for application and analysis of learning, case-based learning, and ongoing development of a professional portfolio are essential aspects of this seminar.  		

SAR OT 502: Integrative Seminar III and LIFW
           			This is the third course in a sequence designed to develop clinical reasoning by integrating course-related knowledge with weekly fieldwork experiences. The course uses problem-based case scenarios and fieldwork experiences to practice reasoning about evaluation and intervention for person of all ages with a variety of disabling conditions. Students apply client-centered, occupation and evidence-based practice concepts to their evaluation and intervention plans.		

SAR OT 513: Analysis and Adaptation of Occupation
SAR OT 520: Evidence-Based Practice I
		The first course in a sequence designed to develop knowledge and skills for using scientific evidence in clinical decision-making. The course focuses particularly on analysis and application of descriptive, relational, and qualitative research evidence.		

SAR OT 524: Introduction to the OT Process
		This course is designed to introduce students to the Occupational Therapy process as described in the OT Practice Frameworks II. The course is organized around the "Paired Cooperative Learning" (PCL) experience. This is a collaborative student relationship designed to provide a practical context for developing skills in evaluation, planning, implementing, and documenting client-centered, occupation and evidence-based occupational therapy assessment and intervention. Students will learn to apply theory to the OT Process in developing and implementing intervention. Professional topics related to therapeutic use of self, interviewing, clinical reasoning, use of theory to guide practice, professional development and wellness-oriented practice are addressed. Course principles are applied to all areas of OT practice.		

SAR OT 526: Functional Movement: Analysis and Assessment
           			This occupational therapy course examines changes in gross and fine movement skills across the life course, and the relation of these changes to occupational performance.  In addition, students learn biomechanical, ecological systems, and dynamical systems' principles underlying human movement and their application to functional activities including seating, transfers, and mobility.  Principles covered in lecture are applied through practical experiences and discussions during the application sessions.		

SAR OT 529: Occupation Across the Life Course
           			This course examines current theory and research related to the development of human occupation throughout the life course. Human development is viewed from occupation-based and ecological perspectives, emphasizing the inextricable links among person, environment, and occupation. The performance of activities of daily living, instrumental activities of daily living, work/education, play/leisure, and social participation, especially as potentially affected by health and disability, will be examined across the life course. Students are required to observe, interpret, and describe occupational performance, and to apply relevant theories and constructs to understand the development of human occupation. Students will begin to develop a base of knowledge about different types, administration, and interpretation of assessment methods and measures.		

SAR OT 530: Occupation Based Practice with Groups
		This Level I Fieldwork Practicum and Integrative Seminar in Occupational Therapy is the culminating course in a four-semester course sequence. It is designed to enhance clinical reasoning by integrating knowledge and skills from current and previous courses with a weekly fieldwork experience. Students use principles of program development, needs assessment, group intervention planning and implementation, along with theory and research evidence, to design and co-lead occupation-centered groups in a variety of practice settings and contexts with child, adult and elder populations. Readings, independent learning, and group supervision are combined with assignments specific to planning and leading a group. Class participation and independent learning are an essential aspect of this course.		

SAR OT 538: Assistive Technology
		This course provides a lecture and laboratory-based introduction on the use of assistive technologies and related issues, such as funding and legislation. It is designed to provide a basic understanding of various types of technologies, assessment procedures, user populations, environments, and the impact of assistive technology on occupation. 		

SAR OT 556: Neuroscience for Occupational Therapy
           			In this foundation neuroscience course, the student will be presented with topics including histology of the central nervous system, gross anatomy and organization of the central nervous system, cross-sectional anatomy of the brainstem and spinal cord, autonomic nervous system anatomy and function, ascending sensory pathways, descending motor pathways, cranial nerves: location, fibers course and function, vasculature of the brain, brainstem, and spinal cord, visual system, vestibular system, auditory system, cerebellum, basal ganglia, cerebral cortical structure and function, limbic system: learning and memory, and development and normal aging of the nervous system. In addition to an in depth discussion of the neuroanatomy of each of the above systems and structures, each topic will have an applied component in which students will investigate the impact of these systems and structures on function. Students will be presented with case studies in class and in the lab portion of the course which reinforce the clinical application of the course topics. In lab, students will also conduct exercises related to the testing of neurological function and investigate neuranaotmic structures using brain atlases and images.		

SAR OT 562: Learning and Behavior Change
           			This course examines interdisciplinary theories of learning and behavior change that underlie current OT theories and practice. The course explores the impact of various clinical conditions and cognitive function on learning and behavior change. The course provides foundation knowledge underlying occupational therapy theories and frames of reference.   		

SAR OT 563: Context and Occupational Performance
           			This graduate course in occupational therapy is designed to be taken concurrently with two other complementary courses: OT 564 and OT 503. This course focuses on knowledge and resources needed for effective clinical reasoning about occupation-based evaluation and intervention. Topics covered include diagnostic conditions and disorders, practice contexts/environments, models and theories of practice, research evidence, healthcare/education regulations and policies, and interdisciplinary practitioner roles.  Content is applied particularly to individuals living with long-term conditions who are most likely to benefit from compensatory and adaptive interventions to enable performance of meaningful occupations such as ADL/IADLs, work, education, play, leisure, and social participation. Classes consist primarily of lectures, group discussions, audiovisual presentations, and case study discussions.  A high level of self-directed learning is expected.		

SAR OT 564: Skills for Occupation Based Practice I
           			This companion course to OT563 Context and OT502 Integrative Seminar III emphasizes the development of assessment and intervention skills for working with individuals living with long-term conditions likely to benefit from compensatory and adaptive strategies. Students will have opportunity for hands-on practice in selecting, administering, and interpreting assessments, as well as choosing and implementing occupation-based interventions. Best practice is promoted by requiring students to support their assessment and intervention choices through theoretical and empirical evidence.		

SAR OT 565: Skills for Occupation Based Practice II
           			This companion course to OT566 Client Factors emphasizes the development of assessment and intervention skills for working with individuals living with conditions likely to benefit from remedial interventions directed toward performance skills and client factors. Students will have opportunity for hands-on practice in selecting, administering, and interpreting assessments, as well as choosing and implementing interventions. Best practice is promoted by requiring students to support their assessment and intervention choices through theoretical and empirical evidence. 		

SAR OT 566: Client Factors and Occupational Performance
           			This graduate course in occupational therapy is designed to be taken concurrently with two other complementary courses: OT 565 (Skills for Occupation Based Practice 2) and OT 586( Professional Service Management).  This component of the course sequence focuses on knowledge and resources needed for effective clinical reasoning about occupation-based evaluation and intervention for the Biomechanical and Neurorehabilitation theoretical perspectives. Topics covered included diagnostic conditions and disorders, theoretical perspectives, research evidence, and practice contexts/environments. Content is applied to individuals living with chronic conditions who are most likely to benefit from remediation interventions to enable performance of meaningful occupations, e.g., ADLs/IADLs, work, education, play, leisure, rest and sleep, and social participation.  Classes will consist primarily of lectures, group discussions, audiovisual presentations, and case study discussions. Considerable self-directed learning is expected.		

SAR OT 570: Special Topics in Occupational Therapy
		Advanced study in a selected area of occupational therapy theory or practice. Specific topic announced in the semester offered. Seminar and/or supervised laboratory study as appropriate to the particular topic.		

SAR OT 586: Professional Service Management
		This required graduate course provides a fundamental, critical overview of health care management principles. Detailed discussions, teamwork, practical case study experiences, as well as oral and written assignments will guide the soon-to-be entry-level occupational therapist to effectively manage people and resources, and to understand political, regulatory, economic, and social forces that are affecting a constantly changing and often complex health and rehabilitation environment. Major emphasis is on advocacy and legislation, reimbursement, financial planning, personnel management, leadership, negotiation skills, conflict resolution, ethics, grant writing, starting up a new program, business or practice, entrepreneurship, and marketing.		

SAR OT 589: Orientation to Practice
           			This graduate course in occupational therapy is designed to orient and introduce students to current and emerging areas of practice. Guest faculty and practitioners will share their experience and expertise for various areas of practice to aid students in understanding the typical contexts of fieldwork experiences that will be an integral part of the curriculum. This course is intended to introduce students to common types of client populations across the lifespan and typical interventions and goals for areas of practice addressing mental health, pediatrics, and physical disabilities occupational needs and services. Goals, guidelines, policies and procedures for participating in the academic program's Level I (LIFW) and Level II (LIIFW) fieldwork programs will be reviewed.  Training in confidentiality/privacy laws will be provided to support students in abiding by professional ethics and behaviors. Additionally, opportunities for professional development within and outside of the University will be highlighted. 		

SAR OT 590: Fieldwork Seminar/Field Experience Fee
		Fee is equal to the cost of two credits. The Fieldwork Seminar is for students completing the didactic coursework in the program.  Topics preparing for the transition from the academic setting to the practice setting, program policies and procedures, criteria for evaluating student performance, supervision issues, fieldwork experience responsibilities and information on certification, licensure and the job search.		

SAR OT 593: Level II Fieldwork I
		Full-time, on-site clinical experience. 		

SAR OT 594: Level II Fieldwork II
		Full-time, on-site clinical experience. 		

SAR OT 595: Level II Elective Fieldwork
SAR OT 617: Contemporary Trends in Occupational Therapy
		This on-line graduate course examines three important current topics of discussion in occupational therapy. The first theme is client-centered practice: What is contemporary thinking about this principle and how does my practice reflect this principle? The second theme is occupation-centered practice: What does it mean to have occupation as the core focus of practice and what are current challenges to keeping this focus? The third theme is looking outward: How do the concerns of occupational therapy relate to work emerging in other fields and where might we find knowledge to enhance our practice, or collaborators who share similar concerns and values? The course assignments are designed to facilitate critical reflection on the student's own practice in relation to these developments.		

SAR OT 620: Evidence-Based OT Practice II
		This second course in the evidence-based practice sequence focuses on critical analysis of research on intervention effectiveness. Students examine issues of internal, external, and statistical validity as they relate to the appropriate use of evidence for clinical decision-making.		

SAR OT 621: Evidence-Based OT Practice III
           			This is the third course in a sequence that develops skills and knowledge for evidence-based occupational therapy practice. The course focuses on generating evidence for one's own practice. The course introduces students to methods to examine generating group level (program evaluation) individual outcomes (single subject design).		

SAR OT 713: Developmental Disabilities I: Evaluation, Assessment, Families and Systems
	This interdisciplinary course addresses issues relevant to professionals who work with people with developmental disabilities, their families, and the human service system.  Understanding the professionals' role in diagnosing, evaluating and assessing children who have developmental disabilities or who are at high risk of acquiring them will be the emphasis for the first half of the semester.  Specific discussions of families and services will highlight the second half of the term.  This course is offered in collaboration with six area universities and colleges and meets off-campus at the Children's Hospital.		

SAR OT 714: Developmental Disabilities II: Values, Policy and Change
	This course focuses on the community, system and leadership components of developmental disabilities and is based on values of enhancing the quality of life of individuals with disabilities.  Issues of systems change and  policy implications are stressed while understanding disabilities for the persons' and families' perspective are maintained.  This course is offered in collaboration with six area universities and colleges and meets off-campus at the Children's Hospital.		

SAR OT 736: Independent Study
		Individually supervised study for advanced students wishing to pursue a specialized area of interest in occupational therapy.		

SAR OT 900: Scholar Project I
		This on-line graduate course gives students the opportunity to apply the skills developed in the first two evidence-based practice courses Evidence Based Practice (EBP) and Directed Study in Evidence Based Practice: to investigate an intervention question related to their own practice. Students will conduct an in-depth search for evidence, analysis of best evidence, and the outline of a synthesis that proposes the current, "best answer" to the clinical question posed. Students will work as partners to provide assistance, guidance, and feedback to each other during this structured process. 		

SAR OT 901: Scholarly Paper II
		This on-line graduate course completes the work begun in Scholarly Paper I. The specific emphasis of work in this course is on preparing evidence summaries in different formats that are suitable for client/consumer, management, and peer audiences. 		

SAR OT 904: Thesis Proposal Development
           			Under the guidance of a faculty mentor, the student develops a written research proposal.		

SAR OT 910: Social Policy and Disability
		This on-line graduate case-based course examines current models of and perspectives on disability and their influence on social policy. The history of disability policy is examined as well as the ways in which social, medical, and universal models are manifest in current health and social service delivery systems in the US and other developed countries. The course also examines cultural assumptions about the nature of health, disability, and quality of life and the implications of cultural differences for practice models and methods.  		

SAR OT 911: Practicum in Social Policy and Disability
		This on-line graduate course engages students in the critical analysis of policy and disability theory in their major area of practice (e.g., ergonomics, medical rehabilitation, early intervention, mental health services). They must complete critical reviews of additional reading related to their specific field of application as well as a sequence of analyses of the impact of relevant policies on resource allocations, service delivery methods, and reimbursement. 		

SAR OT 915: Evaluating Clinical Theory and Research
	This course is designed to help students think critically about the ways in which theories and models are used to guide clinical practice. In particular, we will examine the distinction between models of function and disablement and theories of how change occurs as a result of intervention, as well as how these models may or may not be related.  We will examine how theories and models describe or explain a phenomenon at different levels of analysis and the types of scientific evidence required to support or refute the propositions reflected in clinical models and theories. The course is limited to students in the OTD program and is offered exclusively on-line. 		

SAR OT 916: Practicum in Theory Analysis
	This course builds on OT 915: Evaluating Clinical Theory and Research. Students examine the contrasting views of mechanistic, organismic, and contextual models, and contemporary expressions of these approaches in the clinical theories. The course investigates explanatory models of change through a critical examination of the theoretical bases of intervention approaches in occupational therapy. Students examine in depth a theory relevant to their doctoral project. The course is limited to students in the OTD program who have completed OT 915. It is offered exclusively on-line. 		

SAR OT 920: Outcomes Measurement and Monitoring I: Program Evaluation
		This on-line graduate course examines quantitative and qualitative methods developed for systematic program evaluation, providing the foundation knowledge and skills needed to complete an evaluation plan for the Doctoral Project. Examples of program evaluations from the clinical literature are examined and their applicability to programs in the student's area of clinical practice evaluated. 		

SAR OT 921: Outcomes Measurement and Monitoring II: Individual Client Monitoring
		This on-line graduate course builds on methods introduced during the foundation courses on evidence-based practice to develop skill in the application of quantitative methods of outcome evaluation for individual clients. These methods include client surveys, performance assessments, continuous performance monitoring, and single-subject designs. The course prepares the student to identify and/or create appropriate methods to evaluate individual results for the evaluation plan for his or her Doctoral Project. 		

SAR OT 925: Capstone
		This on-line graduate Capstone course is the final course in the post-professional OTD program. This course also includes a two-day, on-campus stay at Boston University. Students will prepare for and deliver a 45-minute presentation on their doctoral project to an invited audience from the greater Boston community. After receiving written faculty feedback from this presentation, students will formulate a written response with modifications, and/or counter-argument; and prepare a final version of the proposal that is suitable for professional dissemination. 		

SAR OT 930: Doctoral Project
		This is an on-line graduate course in the post-professional OTD program. Concurrent with each full semester (fall, spring, summer) in the OTD program, students register for one credit of the Doctoral Project. In the fourth semester of the program, students register for 3 credits of the Doctoral Project course. The Doctoral Project is organized around the student's proposed innovation in practice. It is in the form of a series of qualifying tasks, each of which represents a critical phase of the proposal. Guidance in the doctoral project will be through a combination of three elements: Faculty advising and mentorship, peer mentorship and a.Circle of Advisors composed of a minimum of two professionals with content expertise in the doctoral project. The project outcomes include: Description of a short-coming, gap or specific need in the student's area of practice; compilation of a theoretical and evidence base to support the proposed project; description of the proposed program; evaluation plan; funding plan; dissemination plan; executive summary and Fact Sheet. (1 credit each full semester until completed, 3 credits in the final semester - a minimum of 6 credits)		

SAR OT 990: OTD Independent Study
		Continuation of the on-line doctoral project for OTD students who need additional semesters beyond the 6 credits of OT 930 to complete their doctoral project.		

SAR PT 200: Introduction to Physical Therapy
	This course is intended for students who are interested in understanding the profession of physical therapy.  The course provides an overview of the field of physical therapy and will introduce the student to a variety of diagnoses and settings where physical therapy is provided.  Students who are considering a career in physical therapy are encouraged to take this course to gain a deeper understanding of the profession prior to applying to the program.    		

SAR PT 341: Preclinical Experience
	The observation experience helps students to confirm their choice of Physical Therapy as a major, better understand the profession, and gain insight into the communication, knowledge base, and technical skills that successful physical therapist clinicians demonstrate. Sign up for this no credit, P/F required course, the semester that you intend to complete the 30 hours of observation in a health care setting that provides physical therapy. Completion of the observation hours, a reflection paper and a group discussion are required to complete the experience.		

SAR PT 490: Ind Study Pt
			

SAR PT 511: Cardiovascular and Pulmonary System I
           			This course reviews the anatomy and physiology of the cardiopulmonary system.  This course will highlight the adult and pediatric dysfunctions of the cardiopulmonary system, medical and surgical care of this patient population, and the appropriate physical therapy interventions.  Emphasis is placed on patient evaluation, medical assessment, treatment planning, and the performance of the appropriate procedures.  In addition, patient compliance issues, ethical and legal aspects of physical therapy care, and the health care professional's own cardiopulmonary function will be addressed.  Current research will be introduced throughout the course as appropriate.		

SAR PT 512: Cardiovascular and Pulmonary System II
           			This course is designed to expand the student's knowledge of cardiovascular and pulmonary systems as well as cardiovascular and pulmonary physical therapy.  The student will gain an in-depth understanding of physical therapy examination, intervention, and management of peripheral vascular disease, wound care, prosthetic management for amputations, and cardiopulmonary disease.  Laboratory sessions will facilitate the students understanding of lecture material and provide them with hands on physical therapy skills needed to care for patients with the above disorders. Current literature will be the basis for all lecture and lab sessions.		

SAR PT 521: Musculoskeletal System I
           			This course is the first in a series of three for the musculoskeletal system.  It is designed to provide the student with the necessary skills for prevention, examination, evaluation, and intervention of musculoskeletal impairments of posture and the upper extremity joints.  The student will learn a systems approach to patient care.  Specifically, this course will teach the student how to determine which impairments are related to specific functional limitations and disabilities of the individual with upper extremity disorders.  It will consider upper extremity impairments throughout the life span, as well as throughout the natural history (acute through chronic) of the problem. An eclectic approach to interventions will be stressed.		

SAR PT 522: Musculoskeletal System II
           			This course is the second in a series of 3 for the musculoskeletal systems.  It is designed to provide the student with the necessary skills for prevention, examination, evaluation, and intervention of musculoskeletal disorders of the lower extremities.  The student will build upon the systems approach to patient care.  Specifically, this course will teach the student how to determine which impairments are related to specific functional limitations and disabilities of the individual with lower extremity disorders. It will consider lower extremity disorders throughout the life span, as well as throughout the natural history (acute through chronic) of the problem. An eclectic approach to interventions will be stressed.  Laboratory sessions will develop the student's skills in examination and intervention techniques to address lower extremity musculoskeletal disorders.		

SAR PT 550: Scientific Basis of Human Movement
           			This course provides an overview of current theory and data that address the question of how humans select, perform, and learn skilled actions. Students will learn to apply basic principles of sensorimotor coordination and control to physical therapy evaluation and intervention planning, and learn how these principles can be used to guide treatment of dysfunctional movements, regardless of the type of underlying disease/injury, impairment, activity limitation or participation restriction. Emphasis will be placed on: (1) understanding how movements emerge from the interaction of individual, task, and environmental constraints; and (2) understanding the resources that the individual brings to any given skilled action (biomechanical, neuromuscular, sensory, cognitive and cardiopulmonary systems). The basic systems approach proposed by Bernstein for an adequate motor control theory will be used as a way to critique theories currently used as a basis for physical therapy, and to introduce the concepts of system constraints and of dynamical systems theory. The ways in which the constraints/dynamics approach can be integrated with the disablement model adopted by the APTA in its clinical practice guidelines (the World Health Organization's ICF model) will be identified. The results will allow the student to gain insight into how to conceptualize a holistic model of the factors that influence the patient's behavior, identify causes of problems, and learn a thought process for evaluation and treatment.		

SAR PT 551: Neuroscience for Physical Therapy Students
           			This course is designed to serve as an introduction to the normal development and function of the nervous system. It is assumed that you have a basic understanding of anatomy & physiology (e.g. cell structure, ionic exchange, and action potentials). This is a basic science course that serves as a building block for successive clinical courses.		

SAR PT 555: Integrated Clinical Experience I
           			This is the first in a series of two courses which will integrate course content taught in the DPT curriculum with clinical experiences, incorporating all components of the patient/client management model.  Through review of patient records, patient interviews, and examination and treatment of non-complex patients or diagnoses, students will develop skills in the process of clinical decision making, obtaining patient data, and treatment progression. This course will be closely aligned with concomitant academic preparation to enable students to practice recently learned skills in a clinical environment. Additionally, the student will begin to understand clinical teaching, the role of the PT in relation to other health care providers, and issues involved in the delivery of physical therapy, including professionalism, interpersonal skills, communication, and law and ethics.		

SAR PT 565: Integrated Clinical Experience II
           			This is the second in a series of two courses which will continue to integrate course content taught in the DPT curriculum with clinical experiences incorporating all components of the patient/client management model.  Through review of patient records, patient interviews, and observation and treatment of non-complex patients or diagnoses, students will develop skills in the process of clinical decision making, obtaining patient data, and treatment progression. This course will be closely aligned with concomitant academic preparation to enable students to practice recently learned skills in a clinical environment. Additionally, the student will begin to understand clinical teaching, the role of the PT in relation to other health care providers, and issues involved in the delivery of physical therapy, including professionalism, interpersonal skills, communication, and law and ethics.		

SAR PT 623: Musculoskeletal System III
           			This course is designed to provide the student with the necessary skills for prevention, examination, evaluation, and intervention of musculoskeletal disorders of the spine and TM joints.  It is the third in a series of musculoskeletal based classes and will complete the required musculoskeletal content of the PT program. The student will learn an evidence-based and systems approach to patient care.  Specifically, this course will teach the student how to determine which impairments are related to specific functional limitations and disabilities of the individual with spinal disorders.  It will consider spinal impairments throughout the life span as well as throughout the natural history of the problem. An eclectic approach to interventions will be stressed along with current literature findings.		

SAR PT 634: Diagnostic Procedures for Rehabilitation Professionals
           			This course will identify and describe various modes of imaging techniques and tests used in medical practice for the neuromusculoskeletal, cardiovascular, and pulmonary systems.  The process of diagnosis in the context of the physical therapist's practice will be discussed.  Identification of basic radiological pathology and tests results that directly impact physical therapy care and prognostication will be emphasized, as well as integration of test/imaging results in the physical therapy evaluation and plan of care.  Correlation of test results with clinical examination findings will be emphasized to allow the student to engage in professional dialogue with other health care providers, including collaboration with radiologists.  Diagnostic procedures covered in the course will include but not be limited to: X-ray, CT scan, MRI, bone scan, fluoroscopy, PET, SPECT, EMG/NCV, ECG, echocardiogram, thallium scan, exercise testing, cardiac catheterization, angiogram, MRA, CBC, electrolytes, lipid profiles, cardiac enzymes, and oncology markers.		

SAR PT 652: Neurological System I
           			The purpose of this course is to provide the students with a foundation for examining, evaluating, and determining appropriate interventions for individuals who have movement dysfunction secondary to neurological deficits.  Students will learn the key elements of the neurological examination and its basis in functional neuroanatomy.  Students will become skilled in conducting a neurological examination which is guided by the pathophysiology, patient history, and functional deficits associated with or resulting from disease or injury to the nervous system.  Emphasis will also be placed on understanding normal and impaired movement through discussion of current motor control and motor learning theories.  The Nagi and ICF models of disablement will be used as frameworks for examining and evaluating movement dysfunction and for developing a plan of care.  		

SAR PT 653: Neurological System II
           			This course is a continuation of Examination and Treatment of Neurological Systems I and emphasizes evidence based physical therapy management for people who have specific neurological disorders. In PT652, a general foundation was developed for examining, evaluating, and determining appropriate interventions for individuals who have movement dysfunction secondary to neurological deficits. PT 653 will build on the foundation developed in PT 652 by considering how specific neurological disorders guide physical therapy practice. The course will focus on pathophysiology, examination, evaluation, diagnosis, prognosis, plan of care, intervention, and expected outcomes for commonly encountered diagnoses in neurorehabilitation such as Multiple Sclerosis, Traumatic Brain Injury, Spinal Cord Injury, Parkinson's Disease, and Cerebral Palsy. Common diagnostic groups are chosen with the intent of enhancing specific knowledge as well as developing a general problem solving approach that applies to any type of neurological diagnosis. The included diagnoses will illustrate how decision-making in physical therapy takes into account issues of age (life span), natural history, stage in the disease process, and nature (stable vs. progressive) of specific neurological disorders. Students will learn to develop a plan for examination, including the most sensitive and specific standardized examination tools, and to develop a plan of care that is specific to various diagnostic groups and that is based on current evidence.		

SAR PT 663: Directed Research
           			Research project implemented under the guidance of a faculty supervisor.		

SAR PT 681: Academic Practicum I
           			The Academic Practicum I experience provides students with the opportunity to apply and enhance their knowledge and skill while completing a more in depth and practical experience in one of four areas of their choosing: education, health promotion, clinical research or health care management. Students will identify an area of interest and collaborate with a mentor to design and begin implementation of a project that extends over two semesters.		

SAR PT 690: Independent Study in Physical Therapy
	Work on a special project developed by contract and conducted under supervision of a faculty member.		

SAR PT 691: Clinical Education Seminar I
           			This course is the first in a series of three seminars related to clinical education experiences of students in the Doctoral of Physical Therapy Program.  The content is rooted in professional behaviors, ethics, and the core values of accountability, compassion/ caring, integrity, and professional duty, in the practice of physical therapy.  The seminars are designed to bridge clinical and classroom experiences in these areas through the use of discussion, reflective learning, real life examples from clinical experiences, case studies, and collaborative learning.  This first course/seminar will also provide tools to assist the student with choosing and maximizing future clinical experiences. 		

SAR PT 692: Clinical Education Seminar II
           			This course is the second in a series of three seminars related to clinical education experiences.  The content is rooted in professional behaviors, ethics, and the core values of accountability, altruism, compassion/ caring, excellence, integrity, professional duty, and social responsibility in the practice of physical therapy.  The seminars are designed to bridge clinical and classroom experiences in these areas through the use of discussion, reflective learning, real life examples from clinical experiences, case studies, and collaborative learning.  This course will also provide tools to assist the student with choosing and maximizing future clinical experiences. 		

SAR PT 756: Pediatrics
           			This course is designed to improve student physical therapists' understanding, exposure, critical evaluation and integration of current best practice towards pediatric physical therapy clinical practice.  The readings, class discussions and lab related activities will focus on increasing students' understanding of typical and atypical development, and how factors affect a child's motor performance across all environments.  We will apply theoretical principles of motor control and neurological development to enhance understanding of typical motor development (briefly), as well as motor development in children with various diagnoses.		

SAR PT 773: Comprehensive Clinical Reasoning
	Comprehensive Clinical Reasoning is a case based course taught in small tutorial groups using the problem based learning format.  The course is intended to enhance integration of course content taught elsewhere in the curriculum within the context of a physical therapy case study.  Students will be expected to use a variety of resources, ( i.e. current literature, text books) to solve complex patient cases.  Issues to be discussed will include: streamlining the patient examination, clinical decision making, effective physical therapy intervention, likely prognosis, clinical teaching, the role of the PT in relation to other health care providers, issues involved in the delivery of physical therapy, including professionalism, interpersonal skills, communication, third party payers and ethics.		

SAR PT 780: Academic Practicum
	The purpose of the Academic Practicum experience in the Doctor of Physical Therapy Program is to provide students with the opportunity to apply and enhance their knowledge and skill while completing a more in depth and practical experience in one of four areas of their choosing:  education, clinical research, health promotion or health care management. Students collaborate with a mentor to design and implement the Practicum. The experience also provides for refinement and development of skills and behaviors in a wide variety of collateral areas not immediately associated with the primary content area. 		

SAR PT 781: Academic Practicum II
           			The Academic Practicum experience provides students with the opportunity to apply and enhance their knowledge and skill while completing a more in depth and practical experience in one of four areas of their choosing: education, health promotion, clinical research or health care management. Students will implement and complete the project initially developed during Academic Practicum I course.		

SAR PT 790: Clinical Exp Pt
			

SAR PT 791: Clinical Education Experience 1
           			This is the first of three full-time clinical experiences in the DPT curriculum.  It is designed to focus on the synthesis of knowledge, skills and behaviors learned in the classroom and laboratory, and addressed during the integrated clinical experiences.  Students are expected to demonstrate the ability to make sound clinical decisions in the management of non-complex patient problems in a moderately paced environment. Students are supervised in clinical and community settings by qualified physical therapists.		

SAR PT 792: Clinical Education Experience 2
           			This is the second of three full-time clinical education experiences in the DPT curriculum. It is designed to focus on the synthesis of knowledge, skills and behaviors learned in the classroom, laboratory and addressed throughout the first 5 semesters of the DPT program.  Students are expected to demonstrate the ability to make sound clinical decisions in the management of non-complex patient problems in a moderately paced environment. Students are supervised in clinical and community settings by qualified physical therapists.		

SAR PT 793: Clinical Education Internship
           			This is the third of three full-time clinical experiences in the DPT curriculum. It is designed to focus on the synthesis of knowledge, skills and behaviors learned throughout the first 6 semesters of the DPT program. Students are expected to demonstrate the ability to make sound clinical decisions in the management of patient problems in a moderately paced environment. Students are supervised in clinical and community settings by qualified physical therapists.		

SAR PT 794: Clinical Education Seminar III
           			This course is the final in a series of three seminars related to clinical education experiences of students in the Doctor of Physical Therapy program.  The content is rooted in professional behaviors, ethics, and the core values of accountability, altruism, compassion/ caring, excellence, integrity, professional duty, and social responsibility in the practice of physical therapy.  The seminars are designed to bridge clinical and classroom experiences in these areas through the use of discussion, reflective learning, real-life examples, and collaborative learning.  Some information covered in previous seminars will be explored again in light of additional clinical experience in a different setting.  In addition, this final course will also provide tools to assist the student with the transition to becoming a professional physical therapist including attaining licensure and employment and developing a plan for ongoing professional development. 		

SAR PT 900: Neuro Residency
			

SAR PT 901: Neuro Residency
			

SAR RS 650: Foundations of Rehabilitation Science
	This course serves as an introduction into philosophy of science and ethics. The first four lectures will focus on the different perspectives in the organism-environment relationship, mind-body distinction, and action will be discussed. These perspectives will be related to theories on the emergence of knowledge, conceptual frameworks in health and rehabilitation sciences, and ethical reasoning. The goal of this course is to facilitate the ability of the students to critically analyze the assumptions of theories and models in health and rehabilitation sciences.  Format of sessions will be lecture, discussion and presentation of main assignment. Student presentations will be integrated into the topics presented.		

SAR RS 750: Research Design
	This course serves as an introduction into research designs relevant to rehabilitation science. The first set of sessions provides the background and framework for understanding the reasoning behind different research designs.  The remaining sessions focus on various categories of research designs, the types of research questions these designs address, and the types of data analyses that are appropriate to the designs. The course content is integrated with the content students received in Philosophy of Rehabilitation Science.  Format of sessions are lecture, discussion, and experiential. Student assignments are individualized to student areas of mentored research. Student presentations are integrated into the topics presented according to the class schedule.		

SAR RS 790: Teaching Skills
	The role of the researcher as teacher is highly valued but seldom emphasized in graduate education. This course is designed to provide students with the opportunity to learn and practice sound teaching and learning principles and mechanics into the teaching of College-level students. Students will be required to present a class four times during the semester. Following presentations, the student will be critiqued by the instructor and by peers. Students will also be given a number of readings around which discussion will take place. Discussion will emphasize how students might incorporate the lessons from their readings into the next presentation. Finally students will be required to develop a detailed course outline and schedule and a sample lesson. Ideally this will be preparation for a class that the student may eventually teach. The primary emphasis will be on teaching of medium to large classes using the lecture method.		

SAR RS 870: Emerging Topics
	A seminar for doctoral students that focuses on a different topic each semester.		

SAR RS 890: Doctoral Seminar in Rehabilitation Sciences
	This seminar allows for a discussion of topics of interest to doctoral-level students in the PhD program in Rehabilitation Sciences, and is designed to provide insight in 1) curricular aspects of the PhD program, 2) mentor-mentee relationship, 3) skills necessary for PhD graduates entering the field of rehabilitation sciences with a research doctorate, and 4) interdisciplinary nature of the field of rehabilitation. This course enhances the student's ability to successfully complete the PhD program by working on skills needed to write and critically review IRB proposals, research manuscripts and research grant proposals, to outline ethical dilemmas in research, to formulate and disseminate a line of inquiry, and to distinguish various career paths. Literature addressing these issues will be used throughout to illustrate the arguments.		

SAR RS 900: Yr 1 Mentorship
			

SAR RS 910: Rs Scd Dir Read
			

SAR RS 911: Rs Scd Dir Res
			

SAR RS 920: Comp Exam
			

SAR RS 930: Dis Pro Dev
			

SAR RS 940: Dis Reseach
			

SAR RS 991: Rs Scd Diswrite
			

SAR SH 497: Directed Study in Speech Pathology and Audiology
	Independent study in selected areas of speech and language disorders, language and learning disabilities, speech and hearing sciences, or audiology. Term paper or other project summary. 2-4 cr, either semester		

SAR SH 505: Introduction to Phonological Disorders
           			This course provides an overview of current models of normal and disordered phonological development. Students examine and practice evidenced-based principles and practical applications of assessment, analysis, diagnosis, and remediation approaches and procedures to facilitate critical thinking and problem-solving abilities to apply to working with individuals with a variety of phonological disorders. 		

SAR SH 521: Phonetics
	Application of International Phonetic Alphabet to sounds of American English. Detailed analysis of vowel and consonant sounds. Students learn and practice the skills necessary to analyze and transcribe speech sounds to describe the speech patterns of various American dialects and speech disorders. 		

SAR SH 522: Anatomy and Physiology of the Speech Mechanism
	Study of the physiological structures and functions that underlie speech production.  Emphasis is placed on the respiratory, phonatory, and articulatory systems. Introduction to neuroanatomy and neural control of the production of speech as well as dysfunction of these normal processes in clinical disorders is included. 		

SAR SH 523: Introduction to Speech Science
           			Lecture, laboratory, and demonstrations. Introduction to the basic physics of sound, including the decibel scale, spectral analysis, and resonance. Includes speech production, speech perception and suprasegmental effects. 4 credits, 1st semester.    		

SAR SH 524: Language Acquisition
	This course will focus on first language acquisition in infancy and childhood. We will cover the progression of language development in each of the traditional areas of linguistic analysis: phonology, semantics, syntax, and pragmatics. The course will be focused on experimental research in typical language acquisition and on different theories that strive to explain the underlying cognitive and linguistic mechanisms at work in an early learner.  		

SAR SH 531: Introduction to Communication Disorders
	Introduction to various speech and language disorders found across linguistically and culturally diverse populations. Characteristics underlying biological systems and methods for evaluation and treating a variety or communication disorders are examined. Exploration of the professions of speech pathology and audiology. 		

SAR SH 535: Diagnostic Audiology
	Requires both lecture and lab to cover hearing assessment through the use of pure-tone and speech audiometric techniques as well as the measurement of middle-ear function. The course also includes information about the anatomy and physiology of the auditory system, acoustics, and the effect of noise on hearing.		

SAR SH 542: Aural Rehabilitation
           			An introduction to theory and techniques of audiologic habilitation and rehabilitation in audiology and speech-language pathology. The significance of Deaf world issues in the field of aural rehabilitation is addressed throughout the course.  		

SAR SH 547: Introduction to the Clinical Process I
           			This course is designed to prepare speech-language pathology students to enter into clinical practicum.  Students will study theories of clinical process through guided observation experiences, culminating to a final mini-practicum experience. As part of this course, students will complete the ASHA requirement of 25 clinical observation hours. 		

SAR SH 548: Introduction to Language Disorders Across the Lifespan
	Pre-requisite: SH 524. This course will provide a broad overview of language disorders across the life span. Students will learn about the causes and characteristics of a variety of developmental and acquired language disorders. We will discuss assessment of language skills and various evidence-based treatment methodologies using video demonstration, live observation, and simulated practical experiences. 4 credits, 1st semester		

SAR SH 551: Practicum in Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology
	Qualified seniors will be selected for placement in a clinical or educational setting under the supervision of a certified speech-language pathologist or audiologist. This course is designed to provide students with an opportunity to develop basic clinical skills in a professional setting. 4 credits, both semesters		

SAR SH 605: Speech Sound Disorders
	Current theoretical models of  phonological development and analysis will be applied to decision making processes in assessment and treatment of speech sound disorders.		

SAR SH 630: Diagnostic Audiology
	Requires both lecture and lab to cover hearing assessment through the use of pure-tone and speech audiometric techniques as well as the measurement of middle-ear function. The course also includes information about the anatomy and physiology of the auditory system, acoustics, and the effect of noise on hearing. 4 credits, 1st semester		

SAR SH 640: Senior Internship
           			The goal of this capstone seminar is to provide students with knowledge and skills in the application of different types of evidence as a basis for practice in a variety of clinical and research internships related to the disciplines of speech language and hearing sciences.		

SAR SH 650: Healthcare Seminar
	MS in Speech-Language Students only. The goal of this seminar is to provide students in medical field placements with knowledge regarding service delivery models, reimbursement issues, documentation requirements, assessment approaches, goal setting, interdisciplinary team approaches, prioritizing treatment concerns and discharge planning. Case study presentations and discussions will be generated from students' field placement experiences. 		

SAR SH 691: Introduction to Augmentative and Alternative Communication
           			History and theory of non-speech communication. Survey of types of augmentative communication aids, techniques, and symbol systems including sign language, and traditional and nonstandard orthography. Speech, language, and communication assessment and intervention strategies for non-speech communication modes. Funding and advocacy issues and procedures. 		

SAR SH 700: Research Methods in Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology
	Evidence-based practice in the diagnosis and remediation of speech, language or hearing disorders requires the application of research methods to answering clinical questions. The course includes an introduction to a range of experimental designs, statistical analyses, and measurement approaches in the fields of speech-language pathology and audiology. Contemporary journal articles are evaluated for quality and used as examples for sufficiency of evidence in clinical decision making. 		

SAR SH 702: Public School Programming in Speech-Language Pathology
	MS Speech-Language Pathology students only.  The goal of this seminar is to provide students in public school practicum     placements with knowledge regarding school-related issues such as service delivery models, assessment approaches, curriculum frameworks, governing laws and regulations, and the consultation process.   		

SAR SH 703: Counseling in Speech-Language Pathology: An Introductory Seminar
	MS Speech-Language students only. An introduction to the basic principles, theory, skills, and clinician characteristics necessary for counseling clients and their families. Emphasis is placed on the developing self-awareness and clinical presence as foundations for insight into the client's situation and choosing helpful responses. 		

SAR SH 708: Models of Language
	This course is a comprehensive overview of structure and process in language use and development and includes a review on the structure of language in each of the traditional areas of linguistic analysis. In addition, the course will provide an overview of normal language processing in children by reviewing the stages of typical language acquisition. Finally, experimental methods and analysis tools commonly used in language research will be covered. 		

SAR SH 709: Language Sampling Analysis
	This course provides students with the knowledge and skills required to elicit, transcribe and analyze conversation, narrative and expository language samples.  Analyses in the areas of syntax, semantics, pragmatics and discourse are presented and the strengths and weaknesses of each of the analyses are discussed.  The course also includes a discussion of theoretical and clinical issues related to the use of language sampling and analysis in the assessment and treatment of language disorders. 		

SAR SH 720: Craniofacial Disorders
		Ontogenetic, anatomic, and physiologic aspects of orofacial anomalies with an emphasis on cleft lip and palate. Issues involving a team approach to diagnosis and treatment including medical, surgical, prosthetic, and therapeutic procedures. 		

SAR SH 721: Motor Speech Disorders
	In this course, students will review the neuroanatomy underlying motor speech disorders and will then learn about each type of motor speech disorder in detail.  Most of the classes will cover specific types of dysarthria, but two sessions will focus on apraxia of speech. Clinical assessment protocols will be learned and treatment interventions will be covered.  Each class will devote some time to listening and scoring audiotapes of patients with a dysarthria or apraxia of speech. 		

SAR SH 727: Autism Spectrum Disorders
	This course provides students with the core features of autism spectrum disorders (ASD) and a description of the fundamental features of associated communication disorders.  Students have the opportunity to examine receptive language, expressive language and pragmatics in individuals with ASD through video presentations and review of the literature.  Students discuss and evaluate issues associated with ASD including early diagnosis, behavioral challenges, treatment techniques, and current issues in the field.		

SAR SH 729: School-Age Language Disorders
           			This course provides students with a foundation of knowledge about the etiology and characteristics of language disorders in school-age children.  Students will discuss the evolving language demands that children encounter as they progress through school, and will explore the impact of language disorders on academic performance and social interaction in the classroom.   Students will come to appreciate the relationship between oral and written language development, as well as the role of the SLP in the assessment and treatment of written language disorders.  This course gives students the tools necessary to effectively identify, evaluate and treat children with language, reading and writing disorders. 		

SAR SH 732: Fluency Disorders
	Theories, diagnosis, and approaches to modification of stuttering behavior. Analysis of cases and review of pertinent research. 		

SAR SH 733: Voice Disorders
	Anatomical and physiological bases of voice production. Diagnosis and therapy for phonatory disorders in children and adults. Function of the team philosophy for speech pathologists in vocal rehabilitation. 		

SAR SH 734: Acquired Cognitive Disorders
	An introduction to the rehabilitation of individuals with acquired brain injury across the recovery continuum from acute care to post-acute rehabilitation and reintegration into the community. Primary focus is on the role of the speech-language pathologist and the knowledge and skills required for diagnosis and treatment of this population. Formal and informal assessment tools, treatment paradigms, function of the interdisciplinary team, prevention, advocacy, and strategies to address the needs of family members are presented. 		

SAR SH 735: Preschool Language Disorders
	This course explores communication disorders from infancy through the preschool period.  Topics addressed include theoretical frameworks for the assessment and treatment of childhood language disorders, etiology and characteristics of language/communication disorders in infants and preschool children, principles and methods of assessment and intervention, multicultural issues in assessment and intervention, and current issues in the early childhood language disorders research literature.  Class sessions and assignments are designed to facilitate students' critical thinking and problem solving abilities in the area of infant and preschool communication/language disorders. 		

SAR SH 736: Aphasia
	This course will cover current theories of language processing and of language breakdown subsequent to neuropathology. Course topics cover neuroanatomy, neuroimaging and psycholinguistic models of language processing. Evaluation, diagnosis, and treatment of adults with aphasia will be covered. Students will learn how to analyze language disorders in relation to current theories using a variety of diagnostic instruments and how to use the results of this analysis to plan for therapy. 		

SAR SH 737: Evaluation and Diagnosis in Speech Pathology
	Differential diagnosis in speech pathology. Review of pertinent research, interpretation of test results, and discussion of the implications of the diagnostic findings in a total rehabilitation process. 		

SAR SH 738: Dysphagia
           			This course will provide basic information necessary to understand normal and abnormal swallowing and will impart the knowledge and skills needed to assess and treat patients with dysphagia. Topics include neuroanatomy and physiology of swallowing, the clinical evaluation, instrumental evaluations (fluoroscopy and endoscopy), treatment, swallowing disorders in children, and complications of dysphagia. Videorecorded swallow studies will be shown in most classes to enable the student to become proficient in identifying abnormal findings. 		

SAR SH 739: Advanced Dysphagia
           			This course will delve more deeply into topics of importance to clinical practice in dysphagia. Topics include evaluation procedures, analysis of FEES and MBS studies, efficacy of novel and established treatments, difficult decision making, dysphagia in head and neck cancer, neurologic disorders, dementia. Lab dissection and hands-on scoping sessions. Case studies to highlight each topic. The size of the class will be limited to encourage class discussion.		

SAR SH 740: Introduction to Clinical Practicum: Speech and Language
           			Students are assigned to the Boston University Speech, Language and Hearing center for their first practicum experience. Clinical work is accompanied by regular group and individual meetings with the clinical staff. Acceptable hours may be applied to certification. 		

SAR SH 741: Clinical Practicum: Speech and Language
           			Students are assigned to their first field-based experience from a variety of clinical settings. Upon successful completion of SAR SH737, students are assigned to the Boston University Speech, Language, and Hearing Center Diagnostic Team. Students may also be assigned to Boston University specialty clinics. Acceptable clinical hours may be applied to certification. 		

SAR SH 742: Clinical Practicum: Speech and Language
	Students are assigned their second field-based experience from a variety of clinical settings. Upon successful completion of SH 741 and SH 737, students are assigned to a Diagnostic Team. Students may also be assigned to Boston University specialty clinics. Acceptable clinical hours may be applied to certification. 		

SAR SH 743: Clinical Practicum: Speech and Language
	Students are assigned their third field-based experience from a variety of clinical settings. Students may also be assigned to Boston University specialty clinics. Acceptable clinical hours may be applied to certification. 		

SAR SH 748: Hearing Practicum I
           			Clinical practicum for students in the Masters of Speech-Language Pathology program.  Students conduct hearing screenings for children and adults under the supervision of an audiologist, following protocols established by the American Speech, Language and Hearing Association.  Some clinical sites are in local schools. 		

SAR SH 752: Hearing Practicum II
           			Establishing written goals for aural habilitation and rehabilitation though sample cases, online. Hands-on training and practice with hearing aids and other assistive listening devices in a workshop format. 		

SAR SH 755: Applied Speech Science
           			The purpose of this course is to introduce students to those aspects of speech science that bear on clinical issues in speech-language pathology. Classes are structured to include the presentation of new material followed by an in-class lab session that applies the new concepts. Topics include acoustic phonetics, basic signal processing, speech analysis software, disordered speech analysis, and speech perception.		

SAR SH 756: Cognition and Neural Bases
           			The purpose of this course is to provide students with a thorough understanding of the brain and its neuroanatomy; students will also learn about common models of language processing and the latest advances in neuroimaging studies on language processing in the brain. When students have completed this course, they should be able to (a) be able to identify various structures in the brain and their significance, (b) relate specific communicative disorders to their etiology in the brain, (c) relate models of language processing with specific regions in the brain, and (d) critically evaluate existing neuroimaging studies based on models of language processing and neuroanatomy. 		

SAR SH 760: MS Thesis Res
			

SAR SH 790: Comprehensive Examination
	0 credits, either semester		

SAR SH 901: Indep Study
			

SAR SH 906: Intern Teach
			

SAR SH 942: Thesis Research
	Tutorial conferences with appropriate faculty concerning development and completion of thesis project. 		

SAR SH 982: Dissert Res
			

