CGS DS 103: Directed Study
	In this two-credit course students work individually with a faculty member on a semester-long research project culminating in a substantial research paper (10-12 pages) that analyzes a public space in the Boston area, selected by the student.  Relevant scholarship in urban planning and design will be used as a lens to "read" how the chosen space functions as an urban environment, shaping the experience and behavior of those who use it or pass through it.  The research process is broken down into a series of grades assignments, and students meet regularly with their faculty member to discuss their progress. [Open only to students admitted to the CGS January Program]		

CGS DS 104: DIRECTED STUDY
	In this two-credit course, students work individually with a faculty member on a series of four writing assignments (selected from six options), each of which focuses on a different location in London, and each of which takes a different disciplinary perspective. Assignments typically combine visuals and texts, and are posted to the student's e-portfolio.  Students meet regularly with faculty to review their work-to-date and discuss their progress. [Open only to students admitted to the CGS January Program]		

CGS HU 101: Traditions in the Humanities (The Ancient World through the Renaissance)
	Organized historically and devoted to the study of fiction, drama, poetry, art, and film. The semester begins with a unit on ways of interpreting the humanities, proceeds with the study of literature and art from Ancient Greece through the seventeenth century, and includes a film studies component.  		

CGS HU 102: Breaks with Tradition (The Enlightenment to the Present)
	Examines the departure from tradition characteristic of the modern in all the arts.  Units of study include poetry, modern art, modern drama, and the novel.  Particular themes may be stressed, such as, for example, the recurrence in modern culture of the antihero, formal experiment in the arts, or literature as the embodiment of values.  Students also analyze five films by distinguished contemporary directors.		

CGS HU 103: Changing Times, Changing Minds: Revolutions in the Ancient World through the Enlightenment
	The course examines key figures and works in literary and artistic traditions from the ancient and classical periods through the Renaissance, concluding with a focus on the Enlightenment and Romanticism. The semester's units concentrate on how the works reflect cultural ideals and developments and on how they represent evolving aesthetic standards that have shaped conventions in literature and the arts. Coursework and assignments include learning trips to various sites of historical and cultural significance in and around the Boston area to emphasize the Humanities' relevance beyond the classroom's boundaries and to cultivate the richness in experiential learning. [Open only to students admitted to the CGS January Program]		

CGS HU 104: Changing Times, Changing Minds: The Industrial Revolution to the Digital Revolution
	This course is an interdisciplinary approach to literature and art history, and moves classroom, students, and the faculty overseas to London for the term.  The course focuses on the 19th and 20th centuries and concludes with the technologically complex 21st century. Assignments encourage research skills, critical thinking, and contextual awareness. Learning trips to historically and culturally important sites enhance the course's experiential component and augment the humanities' interdisciplinary significance. [Open only to students admitted to the CGS January Program]		

CGS HU 201: History of Western Ethical Philosophy (Plato to Nietzsche)
	A rigorous course in the history of Western ethical thought from Socrates through Nietzsche.  The course also includes selected films and literary works that embody philosophical ideas or dramatize ethical dilemmas.  Primary texts are used throughout.		

CGS HU 202: History of 20th-Century Ethical Philosophy and Applied Ethics
	This course focuses on the application of philosophical ideas to various areas of modern life, such as politics, science, business, personal development, education, and religious faith. 		

CGS HU 250: Supernatural Horror in American Literature and Film
	Supernatural Horror in American Literature and Film will explore the impact of horror on American culture from the genre's roots in early American history and the Gothic through the works of its most important practitioners in American literature and film. Works covered will include those of Edgar Allan Poe, H.P. Lovecraft, Shirley Jackson, and Stephen King;  films such as The Exorcist and The Blair Witch Project; episodes of the The X Files; and critical writings on horror, film and popular culture.		

CGS HU 251: The Irish Outlaw: The Makings of a Nationalist Icon
	This course will examine the outlaw as he appears in the literature, culture and history of Ireland. As a symbolic figure in Irish folklore and literature, the outlaw is seen as a hero through whom the Irish people have historically imagined their dignity in the midst of perceived political subjugation and social injustice.  Students will be exposed to a variety of texts and genres and will be expected to ask rigorous questions about the style and categorization of these texts, the different portrayals of "the outlaw" that appear, and the importance of such texts in literary and cultural history.  		

CGS HU 500: The History, Literature, Film, and Science of Baseball: An Interdisciplinary Course
	Topic for Spring 2015: American Baseball. This interdisciplinary research seminar examines the history, culture, and science of the game from its shadowy origins in the early days of the nineteenth century, explosive growth in popularity during the Jazz Age, to the controversy-ridden Steroid Era.		

CGS MA 113: Elementary Statistics
	MA 113 may not be taken for credit by any student who has completed any MA course numbered 300 or higher. Students may receive credit for not more than one of the following courses: CAS MA 113, MA 115, or MA 213. Basic concepts of estimation and tests of hypotheses, ideas from probability; one-, two-, and multiple-sample problems. Applications in social sciences. Primarily for students in the social sciences who require a one-semester introduction to statistics; others should consider CAS MA 115 or MA 213. Carries MCS divisional credit in CAS. 		

CGS MA 115: Statistics
	For students needing a general statistics course for their major. It fulfills the mathematics requirement for CAS and the statistics requirement for SHA and COM. The course covers the general concepts of tests and hypotheses, numerical and graphical summaries of univariate and bivariate data. Students work with problems involving basic probability, random variables, binomial distribution, normal distribution. One-sample statistical inference for normal means and binomial probabilities are examined. Applications in the natural sciences and social sciences.		

CGS MA 121: Calculus
	For students continuing to management or needing an introductory calculus course for their major.  Fulfills the CAS and SMG mathematics requirement.  This course covers differentiation and integration of functions of one variable and emphasizes application over mathematical generality.  Applications in the natural sciences, social sciences, and management.		

CGS NS 201: Biology I
	Science as a way of knowing and understanding our contemporary world is the most profound and powerful intellectual and practical tool the human species has developed. Science has allowed humans to understand their physical place in the universe as well as their origin as a species on Earth. Science in our modern, global world can seem increasingly complex, while at the same time be reduced to a relatively few conceptual paradigms or accepted ideas. Many of these major paradigms will be covered in this course including modern cosmology, the origin or life, the molecular and cellular theories of life, human origins and genetics and evolutionary theory. The underlying pedagogy of the course is to examine what we know about an accepted paradigm, how we know these scientific facts and theories, and what are the contemporary applications of the accepted paradigms. The course also provides the primary scientific tools required to explore scientific, ethical and sociological concerns that arise from our understanding of the origin, evolution and diversity of life including that of our own species. Two hours lecture, Two hours lab.		

CGS NS 202: Human Ecology/Global Ecology
	What is the fate of the biosphere and our species? Can humans reconcile economic and technological growth with ecological sustainability? This course examines the impact of one species, Homo sapiens, on the ecosystems of the biosphere, seeking answers to these broad questions. This includes an investigation of the physical forces that shape global climates and ultimately constrain life on Earth. An examination of the interrelationships between the abiotic and biotic components in ecosystems leads to an investigation of the forces that influence biological diversity. The integrative study of population biology culminates in an investigation of the population dynamics of our own species and the implications the exponential growth of the human population may have on global resources and the biosphere. The foundation in general ecology and human population dynamics allows a serious consideration of the technological impact of humans on the delicately balanced ecosystems of Earth. The interrelationship between science and society is also explored. Two hours lecture, Two hours lab.		

CGS RH 101: English Composition: Argument and Critical Thinking
	Begins with critical reading, writing, and thinking strategies.  Students learn the conventions of the expository essay and how to meet its demands by developing a thesis, organizing an argument, and supporting claims with reasoning and evidence.  Students also receive instruction in grammar, style, and document design.  Through class discussion and by working on assignments, students explore connections between readings assigned in Rhetoric and their readings in other courses.		

CGS RH 102: English Composition and Research
	Focuses on research while further developing students' expository writing skills.  Students learn how to use electronic and traditional research tools, how to select and weigh evidence and integrate sources into an argument, and how to use standard scholarly conventions to document their research.		

CGS RH 103: Rhetoric I: Changing Times, Changing Minds: Revolutions in the Ancient World through the Enlightenment
	This course offers instruction in writing, critical reading and research.  It focuses on four themes taken from the four units that comprise the semester's curriculum ("The Birth of 'God': The Advent of Monotheism"; "The Development of Democracy and the Democratic Self"; "Rediscovering Nature and the Self: The Renaissance"; and "Reason to Revolution: The Enlightenment"). Readings and discussions relate these themes to current issues and problems in order to explore how the past has shaped the world of today.  Three papers invite students to research and write about these relationships. Shorter informal writing assignments allow students to integrate the texts and lectures across the curriculum with learning experiences outside the classroom. The course makes extensive use of the university library and online resources to teach research skills. Finally, students learn core academic writing skills, including argumentation and the evaluation, integration, and documentation of sources. [Open only to students admitted to the CGS January Program]		

CGS RH 104: Rhetoric II: Changing Times, Changing Minds: The Industrial Revolution through the Digital Revolution
	Through class discussion and learning experiences, students explore connections between readings assigned in Rhetoric and those in other courses, focusing on themes drawn from the two units that comprise the semester's curriculum ("The Century of Change: The Long 19th Century Yields 20th Century Breaks with the Past" and "The Post-World War Maelstrom: The Escalation of Change.") The course further develops skills in expository writing and introduces exploratory essay writing. Students continue to explore the contemporary relevance and meaning of the interdisciplinary curriculum. Students refine their skills in grammar, style, organization, and document design. [Open only to students admitted to the CGS January Program]		

CGS SS 101: Introduction to Historical Sociology and the Social Sciences
	Introduces the student to the basic tools of anthropology, sociology, social psychology, economics, and history.  Students examine and apply the methods and principal concepts of these disciplines to the problems of contemporary society.  The course introduces the structures and processes involved in an analysis of culture, society, the socialization process, social stratification, and social institutions.  Cross-cultural inquiry demonstrates the universal social needs of people and illustrates how these can be met in a variety of social configurations.		

CGS SS 102: Social Change and Modernization in the Western World
	This course examines the social change in the West.  The focus of this semester's work is a case study of social and cultural transformation from the Middle Ages to the twentieth century. The historical phenomena of industrialism, nationalism, imperialism, socialism, communism, and fascism - all of which are elements of the process of modernization - are examined both in their historical contexts and within the framework of theories of social change.  The historical case study offers the student a vehicle for analyzing in depth the impact of these phenomena on the life, institutions, and ways of thinking of a given society.  		

CGS SS 103: Changing Times, Changing Minds: Revolutions in the Ancient World through the Enlightenment
	This course examines social change in ideologies, governance, economies, and social structures of the Western world. It will consider the rise of monotheism and democracy in the ancient world, the role of trade in economic and political development, and shifts in social  inequalities.  It will look at challenges to authority with the Reformation, the political philosophies of the Enlightenment, and their impact on the social and political revolutions of the 18th century.  Along the way, students gain familiarity with the social science "toolkit" of analytical concepts.  Course themes of social, cultural, political, and economic change will be illustrated by sites in southern New England. [Open only to students admitted to the CGS January Program]		

CGS SS 104: Changing Times, Changing Minds: The Industrial Revolution to the Digital Revolution
	This course focuses on social change in ideologies, governance, economies, and social structures of the West.  It looks at technological innovation, the triumphs and trials of capitalism, and the impact of industrial society on ordinary workers.  It considers the views of classical liberalism and its twin challengers, communism and fascism.  It examines the devastation of industrialized warfare and racialized mass murder and the new international structures that resulted.  It concludes with the globalization of economies and social structures in the digital revolution.  Our study of social change will be deepened by visits to relevant sites in England and France. [Open only to students admitted to the CGS January Program]		

CGS SS 201: Social Change and Modernization in the Non-Western World:  China and Russia.
	This course centers on two case studies in rapid modernization: Russia and China.  Russia, the Soviet Union, and its successor, the Confederation of Independent States, are considered as recent examples of rapid social change and serve as the basis for a comparison of the problems of modernization in contemporary China.  The historical roots of Western industrialism, the culture of the non-Western peoples as it affects their responses to Western experiences, and the dramatic complexities of social change combine to challenge the students' grasp of the problems facing the modern world.		

CGS SS 202: America's Response to Aggression and Revolution:  U.S. Foreign Policy Since the 1930s
	This course focuses on the reaction of the United States to the revolutionary changes that have taken place abroad in the post-World War II era.  After considering the events that destroyed the wartime relationship between the United States and the Soviet Union, the course examines how fear of communism operated as a prism through which our government viewed both foreign and domestic affairs.  The factors that led to America's involvement in Vietnam, to the American-Soviet detente in the 1970s, to the nuclear arms race, and, ultimately, to the collapse of the Soviet Union and the end the cold war are examined.  All of these developments are studied with a view toward answering how our national interests should be defined and pursued in the post-cold war world.  		

CGS SS 250: Death and the Victorians
	Examines the key place "death" occupied in the Victorian cultural and social imagination, using an interdisciplinary approach for its materials and for its method.  The course will focus on literary and artistic portrayals of death and mourning, demographic and cultural change, the origins of medical epidemiology, the rise of spiritualism, and shifting views of the meaning of life and death in a modernizing world.  Required materials, assignments, and experiential exercises (such as an excursion to Cambridge's Mount Auburn Cemetery) reinforce trans-Atlantic connections and the prevalence of cultural attitudes about death and mourning. 		

