SDM PE 946: Practice Management
	Practice management course offered by the Department of Periodontology.		

SDM PE 991: Research: Periodontology
	Approved research in periodontology.		

SDM PE 992: Research: Periodontology
	Approved research in periodontology.		

SDM PE 993: Research: Periodontology
	Approved research in periodontology.		

SDM PH 512: Professional Ethics Development
	Professional Ethics Development is designed to explore the personal and professional values of the dental student and the dental health professional. The course provides a historical and conceptual framework of dentistry, and presents the profession's code of ethics as well as explores some current ethical and legal issues affecting professional practice. The purpose of the course is to assist students in the transition from undergraduate school to professional school and ultimately into knowledgeable, skilled, and caring professionals. Students discuss the school's code of conduct and identify common values of the class, participate in case-based discussions and writing assignments to raise awareness about the personal and professional values involved in dental school and dental practice. 		

SDM PH 514: Preventive Dentistry
	This course is designed to introduce the philosophy of prevention of the various oral diseases as the primary approach to controlling oral disease, as opposed to focusing on treating disease. The approach also focuses not only on the individual patient, but also on the broader community as an entity. The course is intended to direct thought to the concept of maintenance of optimal levels of health through prevention. 		

SDM PH 517: Evidence-Based Dentistry
	The lecture component of this course is an introduction to assessing and evaluating published scientific and dental literature. Students learn to examine the general concepts in experimental design, scientific methodology, and the appropriateness of statistical methods used to evaluate the conclusions of studies. In the seminar component of the course, students meet in small groups led by faculty members who serve as facilitators. Published scientific evidence is used to help develop sound reasoning and critical thinking skills in students. Students analyze scientific literature and learn about general patterns of clinical judgment, critical thinking, decision-making, and application of scientific evidence into everyday practice. 		

SDM PH 520: Integrated Problems in Practice Management II
	This case-based-learning course is comprised of lectures, large group cased-based analysis and small-group case-based seminars. Topics covered in the course include the profession's code of ethics and principles of conduct, as well as aspirational codes. Issues of diversity and cultural competency in professional practice are discussed. A model of ethical decision-making for the dentist is presented and cases involving ethical issues are discussed in large-group lectures and small-group based seminars. Students rely on dialogue with preceptors of their APEX clerkship as a resource for addressing the cases presented in small, interactive faculty-facilitated seminar groups. 		

SDM PH 521: Behavioral Science
	This course identifies the behavioral framework for the effective delivery of health care. Discussions include effective behavioral modification models with respect to doctor and patient communication as well as behavioral aspects of managing patient pain and anxiety. The course provides students with knowledge to also assist them in their personal behavioral management as they transition from student to health care provider.		

SDM PH 524: Preventive Dentistry
	This course is designed to introduce the philosophy of prevention of the various oral diseases as the primary approach to controlling oral disease, as opposed to focusing on treating disease. The approach also focuses not only on the individual patient, but also on the broader community as an entity. The course is intended to direct thought to the concept of maintenance of optimal levels of health through prevention. 		

SDM PH 530: Health Care Law
	This course continues to build the student's understanding and consideration of ethical issues in dental practice and introduces related legal principles. Through lecture and case discussion, the student will focus on ethical problem-solving in more complex patient-based cases and introduces legal concepts affecting the practice of dentistry including licensure, contract and tort law, patient abandonment, malpractice, informed consent and refusal, mandatory reporting laws, patient confidentiality and prudent behavior, diversity and discrimination laws. 		

SDM PH 541: Gerontology &amp; Geriatric Dentistry
	A web-based course designed to provide foundational learning about aging, societal implications of aging, and management of oral health across the aging continuum.  		

SDM PH 544: Integrated Problems in Practice Management IV
	This course provides information necessary for a new graduate to obtain a position as an oral health-care provider. Topics discussed include jurisprudence, risk management (disability and liability insurance coverage and products), third party reimbursement, provider compensation models, personal finance (retirement and student loan repayment), interview techniques, and employment contract assessment. 		

SDM PH 610: Applied Professional Experience Clerkship (APEX)
	During the summer, at the end of their first year, students participate in an 8 week internship rotation at community health centers or private practices approved and affiliated with GSDM. During this time, students are allowed to participate in the provision of patient care. Students experience the different roles of the dental team, and perform a series of observational and hands-on activities that reinforce their knowledge and application of infection control measures, production and evaluation of intraoral radiographs, diagnostic procedures, patient evaluation, caries risk assessment, patient education and preventive dentistry.		

SDM PH 644: Externship
	Students are assigned to alternative treatment settings such as Community Health Centers and Hospital based dental clinics for 10 week rotations. These rotations provide opportunities for continued growth of students clinical skills, as well as enhancement in skills in the following areas: treatment planning, diagnosis, critical thinking and time management. This course also provides the students with experience in treating diverse patient populations. 		

SDM PH 650: Elective Externships
	Elective externships are offered for students in their final year of dental school.  These are short-term externships typically 1 week in length designed primarily for students to visit programs they are considering for postdoctoral advanced education.  They encompass different disciplines of dentistry, at various dental schools and hospitals throughout the United States or Canada.  A student's participation is indicated by a Pass/Fail annotation on their transcript, although there is no credit assigned to this course.  Participation is typically limited to no more than two separate experiences.  Dr. Zea.  0 cr		

SDM PH 660: China Externship Exchange Program
	This is a school-sponsored global initiative available to students in the final year of the 4-year dental program.  This two-week elective externship consists of clinical rotations in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery at one or more Schools of Stomatology in China.  Currently, participating sites include the: Fourth Military Medical University School of Stomatology (FMMUSS) in Xian; Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Stomatology (SJUSS) in Shanghai; and Peking University School of Stomatology (PKUSS) in Beijing. These are world-leading sites with advanced teaching facilities, well qualified English speaking faculty, and large numbers and diversity of patients.  GSDM students will be exposed to these institutions' recognized strength in clinical services specifically for oral cancer patients, with outstanding clinicians, state-of-the-art facilities, and comprehensive approach to all aspects of Oral and Maxillofacial/Head and Neck.  Selection of GSDM students is competitive and requires formal application to the GSDM Office of Global and Population Health.  A student's participation is indicated by a Pass/Fail annotation on their transcript. Although this is a credit-bearing activity, elective courses are not included in calculations of student G.P.A.  Ms. Held.  0.25 cr		

SDM PH 763: Bioethics and Law
	Introduces models of applied ethics used within the field of dentistry. With lectures, case studies, and class discussion, students engage in identification and analysis of ethical dilemmas. Topics include professional responsibility and ethical principles, the doctor-patient relationship, the dentist and the community, and ethical conduct in science. 1st sem.		

SDM PH 780: Geriatrics and Gerontology Seminar
	An in-depth analysis of current issues in our aging population, including demographic profiles, long-term care, financial considerations, and case discussions. Articles from current literature will complement the information discussed in the seminar. 2nd Sem, 1 cr.		

SDM PH 800: Introduction to Biostatistics/Epidemiology
	Introductory course in biostatistics and epidemiology.		

