SDM OP 911: Clinical Digital Dentistry
	Clinical participation in all phases of restorative dentistry with special emphasis on the use of digital technology to diagnose, treatment plan, and fabricate restorations and prosthodontic devices for the patient. Semester 1 &amp; 2.		

SDM OP 912: Clinical Operative Dentistry I
	Clinical participation in routine operative dentistry procedures. Special attention is given to diagnosis, treatment planning, and the relationship of restorative dentistry to other disciplines. 		

SDM OP 913: Clinical Operative Dentistry II
	Clinical participation in all phases of operative dentistry procedures with special emphasis on esthetics and on patients with multidisciplinary needs. Included are clinical rotations in community health centers. 3rd and 4th sem.		

SDM OP 915: Digital Dentistry Literature Review
	This monthly series of seminars focuses on literature review of emerging digital dentistry technology and clinical techniques. Semester 1.		

SDM OP 916: Literature Review
			

SDM OP 991: Research: Operative Dentistry
	Approved research in operative dentistry.		

SDM OP 992: Research: Operative Dentistry
	Approved research in operative dentistry.		

SDM OP 993: Research: Operative Dentistry
	Approved research in operative dentistry.		

SDM OP 994: Research: Operative Dentistry
	Approved research in operative dentistry.		

SDM OR 530: Orthodontics
	This predoctoral course discusses the diagnosis, etiology and development of malocclusions with special focus on their diagnosis and multidisciplinary treatment planning. Intervention in growth problems for children and minor tooth movement for adults are included as well as an Invsalign certification course. 		

SDM OR 801: Orthodontic Fundamentals
	This seven-week course is intended to quickly acquaint new orthodontic graduate students with the knowledge and skills necessary to enter the clinic.  In addition to lectures, there are demonstrations, practice sessions for the clinical skills, and significant amounts of background reading. 4 cr, 1st summer, 80 hours		

SDM OR 802: Introduction to Biomechanics and Wirebending
	 The course introduces the residents to mechanical principles and their applications in orthodontic tooth movement and dentofacial orthopedics.  It also familiarizes them with the properties and applications of different types of bracket materials commonly used in orthodontic practice.  There is a practical component to the course that develops wire bending skills and teaches the residents how to place brackets on model teeth and apply some of the concepts they were introduced to in the lectures. 1 cr, 1st sem., 15 hours.		

SDM OR 803: Clinical Growth and Development
	This course discusses clinical aspects of craniofacial growth and development for the orthodontist. Topics include normal craniofacial growth, psychosocial development, growth modification during orthodontic treatment, and clefts and craniofacial anomalies. 2 cr, 1st and 2nd sem., 25 hours. 		

SDM OR 805: Orthodontics Seminar I
	A six-part course for first-year residents comprising the following seminars: OR 805.1 Orthodontic documentation: comprehensively document problems related to orofacial health and malocclusion.  Case write-ups are emphasized using the American Board of Orthodontics case format.  Dr. Dietz and faculty, 1 cr, 1st sem., 20 hours.  OR 805.2 Biomechanics: Theories &amp; principles of orthodontic biomechanics.  Dr. Dietz, 1 cr, 1st sem., 15 hours.  OR 805.3 Diagnosis &amp; Treatment Planning: Developing basic skills in orthodontic diagnosis &amp; treatment planning. Dr. Blau, 3 cr, 1st and 2nd sem.,  60 hours.  OR 805.4 Zen and the Way of Orthodontics: A beginning course about discovery and contemplation.  Dr. Drizen, 4 cr, 1st and 2nd sem., 80 hours.  OR 805.5 Orthognathic Surgery: Diagnosis, treatment planning, and treatment of dentofacial deformities.  Drs. Dietz and Sherwood, 2 cr, 1st and 2nd sem., 35 hours.  OR 805.6 Removable Aligner Treatment: Developing basic skills in Invisalign.  Dr. Blau, 1 cr, 1st and 2nd sem., 20 hours.		

SDM OR 811: Orthodontic Clinical Practice
	Supervised orthodontic clinical practice in the outpatient orthodontic clinic. 15 cr, 1st through 2nd sem.		

SDM OR 812: Orthodontic Clinical Practice
	Supervised orthodontic clinical practice in the outpatient orthodontic clinic. 17 cr, 3rd through 4th sem.		

SDM OR 813: Orthodontic Clinical Practice
	Supervised orthodontic clinical practice in the outpatient orthodontic clinic.  This course includes outpatient care at the Goldman School of Dental Medicine as well as at the Franciscan Hospital for Children, where the residents will gain experience treating children with special needs. 12 cr, 5th through 6th sem.		

SDM OR 821: Orthodontic Seminar II
	Shorter courses for second year residents comprising the following seminars: OR 821.1 The Efficiency and Business of Orthodontics: Etiology of malocclusions and dysfunction; selecting efficient alternative treatment mechanics; new technology tools; efficient management of a private orthodontic practice. Dr.Walker, 2 cr, 3rd and 4th sem., 40 hours OR 821.2 Case Review/Early Treatment: Issues related to orthodontic treatment of children and adults. Dr. Becker. 1 cr, 3rd and 4th sem., 10 hours. 821.3 ABO Review. Preparation for ABO phase 2 exam and annual assessment exams. Dr. Will and faculty, 1 cr, 4th sem., 10 hours.  OR 821.4 Orthognathic Surgery: Diagnosis, treatment planning, and treatment of dentofacial deformities. Dr. Mehra 1 cr, 3rd and 4th sem., 10 hours.  OR 821.5: Bidimensional treatment:  Practical and theoretical aspects of Bi-Dimensional orthodontic therapy in all types of malocclusions. Dr. Bednar.  3 cr, 5th and 6th sem., 48 hours.		

SDM OR 831: Orthodontics Seminar III
	Shorter specialty seminars for the third year residents comprising the following seminars: OR 831.1 Practice Management: Topics related to the efficient management of a private orthodontic practice. Dr. Blau. 1 cr, 6th sem., 12 hours. OR 831.2 Finishing and Retention: Discussions that focus on specific skills and knowledge related to finishing procedures and retention. Dr. Will, 1 cr., 5th and 6th sem., 15 hours. OR 831.3 Practice Alternatives: Topics related to establishing a private orthodontic practice. Dr. Blau. 1cr, 5th sem., 12 hours. 		

SDM OR 900: Case Presentation
	This course consists of case presentations given by students in all three years of the program. Cases presented include initial diagnosis and treatment planning, progress cases, problem cases, finished cases, and cases requiring interdisciplinary care. 3 cr, 1st and 2nd sem.; 2 cr, 3rd and 4th sem.; 2 cr, 5th and 6th sem.		

