SDM PD 823: Advanced Seminar in Pediatric Dentistry
	An in-depth course of seminars that review the current literature related to pediatric dentistry. Residents from both the first and second year attend SDM PD 822/823. 1st-4th sem.		

SDM PD 824: Advanced Case Presentations in Pediatric Dentistry
	The purpose of the course is to introduce the resident to the discipline of case workup, analysis, and presentation. During the second year of the program, six cases must be documented, analyzed and presented. 3rd and 4th sem.		

SDM PD 911: Clinical Pediatric Dentistry
	Residents rotate through the various clinical sites on a three- to six-month basis. During the first year of the program,residents are closely supervised while developing skills in diagnosis, radiographic technique, treatment planning, preventive and restorative dentistry, space management, trauma management and nonpharmacologic behavior management. As the various clinical skills develop, residents progress to managing children with more complex special health care needs,which often requires interaction and coordination with other medical departments within the hospitals and with outside clinics and practitioners. Significant experience is gained in pharmacologic behavior management techniques for children including nitrous oxide analgesia and oral sedation with combination agents. Residents provide care to patients under general anesthesia at both Franciscan Hospital for Children and Boston Medical Center. Experience is also gained in the provision of dental care for patients undergoing anesthesiologist-provided intra-venous sedation. SDM PD 911/912. 1st-4th sem.		

SDM PD 912: Clinical Pediatric Dentistry
	Residents rotate through the various clinical sites on a three- to six-month basis. During the first year of the program,residents are closely supervised while developing skills in diagnosis, radiographic technique, treatment planning, preventive and restorative dentistry, space management, trauma management and nonpharmacologic behavior management. As the various clinical skills develop, residents progress to managing children with more complex special health care needs,which often requires interaction and coordination with other medical departments within the hospitals and with outside clinics and practitioners. Significant experience is gained in pharmacologic behavior management techniques for children including nitrous oxide analgesia and oral sedation with combination agents. Residents provide care to patients under general anesthesia at both Franciscan Hospital for Children and Boston Medical Center. Experience is also gained in the provision of dental care for patients undergoing anesthesiologist-provided intra-venous sedation. SDM PD 911/912. 1st-4th sem. 		

SDM PD 916: Clinical Orthodontics
	Residents develop clinical expertise through practical application of orthodontic principles developed in lectures and seminars. 2 cr. 3rd and 4th sem.		

SDM PD 918: Clinical Anesthesia
	This course introduces the resident to the basic principles of general anesthesia. Residents participate in the administration of general anesthesia to dental and medical surgical cases. Pre- and postoperative evaluation as well as intra-operative monitoring of the surgical patient is stressed. 		

SDM PD 920: Clinical Pediatric Medicine
	The goal of the month-long rotation in clinical pediatrics is to expose the resident to the practice of pediatric medicine in order to gain knowledge and experience in the management of healthy and sick children, adolescents, and those with special health care needs. 3rd or 4th sem.		

SDM PD 922: Clinical Oral Surgery
	The goal of the month-long rotation in clinical oral surgery is to offer sufficient clinical experience to enable the student to achieve competency in the assessment and management of orofacial trauma, infections, and dental pain. During the rotation each student participates in the emergency room at Boston Medical Center on an "on call" basis. 		

SDM PD 981: Research in Pediatric Dentistry
	Residents must initiate and complete a research project using the elements of scientific method, including research design, accurate reporting, critical thinking, and the formulation of conclusions based upon scientific data rather than opinion. Affiliation with hospitals, medical institutions and other health-oriented organizations is encouraged to foster collaborative research. 3rd and 4th sem.		

SDM PD 982: Research in Pediatric Dentistry
	Residents must initiate and complete a research project using the elements of scientific method, including research design, accurate reporting, critical thinking, and the formulation of conclusions based upon scientific data rather than opinion. Affiliation with hospitals, medical institutions and other health-oriented organizations is encouraged to foster collaborative research.3rd and 4th sem.		

SDM PD 991: Research: Pediatric Dentistry
	Research in pediatric dentistry and related fields designed as a partial requirement for the MSD or DScD in pediatric dentistry. 1st-6th sem.		

SDM PD 992: Research: Pediatric Dentistry
	Research in pediatric dentistry and related fields designed as a partial requirement for the MSD or DScD in pediatric dentistry. 1st-6th sem.		

SDM PD 993: Research: Pediatric Dentistry
	Research in pediatric dentistry and related fields designed as a partial requirement for the MSD or DScD in pediatric dentistry. 1st-6th sem.		

SDM PD 994: Research: Pediatric Dentistry
	Research in pediatric dentistry and related fields designed as a partial requirement for the MSD or DScD in pediatric dentistry. 1st-6th sem.		

SDM PE 520: Periodontology I
	This course presents the clinical and microscopic characteristics of the periodontium in healthy and diseased states. Diagnosis, treatment, and outcomes assessment are discussed. 		

SDM PE 521: Preclinical Periodontology
	This clinical course includes experience in performing diagnostic and preventive periodontal procedures with student partners. 		

SDM PE 530: Periodontology II
	This course presents a continuation of the discussion of concepts presented in PE 520. Emphasis is placed on the diagnosis and clinical management of periodontal disease, including the principles and techniques of periodontal surgery.		

SDM PE 640: Clinical Periodontology II
	This clinical course emphasizes not only treatment of the patient's existing periodontal disease, but also maintenance of healthy periodontium through patient education. 		

SDM PE 670: Current Topics in Dentistry
	PE 670 is an elective course which will review current and classic literature of timely controversial dental topics. The course is a seminar format, and will be limited in size to promote discussion among the participants.   The purpose of this course is to provide didactic instruction to the pre-doctoral student that teaches the student to critically evaluate published studies, and to compare and contrast the at times contradictory information provided in multiple studies on the same controversial topic.  The course will encourage active learning utilizing critical thinking and active participation throughout each session. Students will be required to understand and critically evaluate study design, as well as any flaws or limitations that might bias results.    This course provides students with the opportunities to acquire the knowledge and understanding necessary to integrate new information as lifelong learners, and critically assess the value of published studies, and how they might impact and alter rationale for treatment throughout their career. 		

SDM PE 764: Current Concepts in Periodontology
	Provides an overview of the clinical field of Periodontology. Emphasizes the recognition and diagnosis of periodontal disease states and their classifications. An overview of periodontal therapy is included emphasizing clinical procedures for the nonperiodontology specialist. 1st sem.		

