SDM PE 801: Histology &amp; Embryology of the Periodontium
	This course includes resident presentations of salient aspects of the origin of periodontal structures. Examples of the importance of oral structures with respect to clinical procedures will be provided. Treatment options will be analyzed in terms of anatomic limitations. 		

SDM PE 803: Periodontology III: Selected Topics in Periodontology
	Lecture presentations by residents followed by discussion of the relevant components of periodontal anatomy, cell &amp; molecular biology, epidemiology, diagnosis, prevention, treatment, maintenance and outcomes assessment. This course helps prepare residents for the (AAP) In-service examinations given by the American Academy of Periodontology and the American Board of Periodontology certification. For postdoctoral residents in Years 2 &amp; 3 (3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th sem). 2 cr/yr.		

SDM PE 804: Periodontology III: Selected Topics in Periodontology
	Lecture presentations by residents followed by discussion of the relevant components of periodontal anatomy, cell &amp; molecular biology, epidemiology, diagnosis, prevention, treatment, maintenance and outcomes assessment. This course helps prepare residents for the (AAP) In-service examinations given by the American Academy of Periodontology and the American Board of Periodontology certification. For postdoctoral residents in Years 2 &amp; 3 (3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th sem). 2 cr/yr.		

SDM PE 807: Periodontology Case Presentation/Treatment Planning
	Clinical case presentations by residents followed by discussion of the diagnosis, treatment planning, treatment, and outcomes, including alternatives of periodontal therapy and related dental disciplines. This course fosters understanding of clinical decision-making processes and complements individualized instruction that residents receive from faculty in the clinic.  For postdoctoral residents in Years 2 &amp; 3 (3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th sem). 2 cr/yr.		

SDM PE 808: Periodontology Case Presentation/Treatment Planning
	Clinical case presentations by residents followed by discussion of the diagnosis, treatment planning, treatment, and outcomes, including alternatives of periodontal therapy and related dental disciplines. This course fosters understanding of clinical decision-making processes and complements individualized instruction that residents receive from faculty in the clinic.  For postdoctoral residents in Years 2 &amp; 3 (3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th sem). 2 cr/yr.		

SDM PE 815: Periodontal Literature Review I, II
	Weekly seminar focusing on critical evaluation of classic and current periodontal literature. Provides the resident with the background necessary to develop and defend rationales for therapy. 4 cr, 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th sem.		

SDM PE 816: Periodontal Literature Review I, II
	Weekly seminar focusing on critical evaluation of classic and current periodontal literature. Provides the resident with the background necessary to develop and defend rationales for therapy. 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th sem.		

SDM PE 817: Seminar: Grand Rounds
	Weekly case presentations by periodontic, prosthodontic, endodontic and orthodontic residents, emphasizing comprehensive and evidence based treatment planning. Residents and faculty discuss various options of alternative treatment plans. Stresses importance of interdisciplinary coordination of treatment. 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th sem.		

SDM PE 818: Seminar: Grand Rounds
	Weekly case presentations by periodontic, prosthodontic, endodontic and orthodontic residents, emphasizing comprehensive and evidence based treatment planning. Residents and faculty discuss various options of alternative treatment plans. Stresses importance of interdisciplinary coordination of treatment. 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th sem.		

SDM PE 819: Seminar: Grand Rounds
	Weekly case presentations by periodontic, prosthodontic, endodontic and orthodontic residents, emphasizing comprehensive and evidence based treatment planning. Residents and faculty discuss various options of alternative treatment plans. Stresses importance of interdisciplinary coordination of treatment. 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th sem.		

SDM PE 822: Seminar: Grand Rounds
	Grand rounds seminar offered by the Department of Periodontology.		

SDM PE 823: Periodontal Therapy I
	A comprehensive coverage of rationale and objectives, patient examination, diagnosis and treatment planning. This course includes specific aspects of surgical periodontal procedures and implant therapy. For first-year students. 3rd and 4th sem.		

SDM PE 827: Applied Dental Pharmacology
	Discussion of the major drug classes relevant in the management of the patients in Periodontology and oral medicine. Emphasis will be given also in adverse reactions, including specific contraindications and drug interactions. 4th sem.		

SDM PE 828: Periodontal Literature Review III: Periodontology Current Literature Review
	Review of current Periodontal literature. This course builds on the knowledge obtained by the residents of Periodontal Literature Review I and II. For postdoctoral students in Years 2 &amp; 3 (3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th sem). 		

SDM PE 829: Periodontal Literature Review II: Periodontology Current Literature Review
	Review of current Periodontal literature. This course builds on the knowledge obtained by the residents of Periodontal Literature Review I and II. For postdoctoral students in Years 2 &amp; 3 (3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th sem).		

SDM PE 830: Clinical Applications of Oral Medicine and Oral Pathology
	Clinical applications in the areas of oral medicine and oral pathology.		

SDM PE 911: Clinical Periodontology
	Clinical instruction and supervision of residents. This comprises the elements of case documentation, patient evaluation and examination, diagnosis, treatment planning, surgical and nonsurgical treatment modalities, post treatment evaluation and prognosis. 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th sem.		

SDM PE 912: Clinical Periodontology
	Clinical instruction and supervision of residents. This comprises the elements of case documentation, patient evaluation and examination, diagnosis, treatment planning, surgical and nonsurgical treatment modalities, post treatment evaluation and prognosis. 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th sem.		

SDM PE 913: Clinical Periodontology
	Clinical periodontal practice emphasizing the elements of case documentation, patient evaluation and examination, diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment planning.  Complete periodontal therapy performed under staff guidance.  		

SDM PE 945: Nutrition and Oral Health
	Nutrition and Oral Health course offered by the Department of Periodontology.		

