SDM OB 763: Basic Processes in Oral Biology
	Examines biological processes at the cellular and molecular levels. Provides a basis to understand the events that regulate inflammation; wound healing; bone formation and resorption; salivary proteins and their relevance to mineral homeostasis.; Oral immunology as it pertains to constructive and destructive oral tissues. 1st and 2nd sem.		

SDM OB 766: Oral Immunology &amp; Microbiology
	Immunology section:  The purpose of this course is to present material relative to the subject of oral immunobiology.  The course will deal with the basics of the immune reaction from a subcellular level to an entire host reaction as they pertain to the etiology and pathogenesis of the disease processes in oral cavity. This course will relate basic science findings to the clinical situations with an emphasis on treatment modalities for delivering clinical care. It is also the purpose of the course to provide an understanding of disease pathogenesis so that an informed basis of therapy can be recommended.  Microbiology section: The purpose of this course is to examine the complex microbial ecology of the mouth, with focus on the key microbes involved in dental diseases. The course will include the basic aspects of oral biofilm formation and microbial pathogenicity, with focus on the microbial diversity involved in caries, periodontal and periapical infections. There will be a short analysis of diagnostic microbial identification, as well as treatment modalities. This course will attempt to link microbial clinical problems with basic infectious disease concepts, for a well informed approach to treatment.   		

SDM OB 830: Research Writing
	Identifies and defines the components and uses of research protocol, the underlying research methodology and data, and the construction of a prudent work schedule essential to complete a research project. Includes the development of a protocol based on the student's thesis topic. 1st sem.		

SDM OB 850: Oral Biology Journal Club
	Weekly  review and discussion of current pertinent literature in oral biology and related fields. 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th sem.		

SDM OB 852: Oral Biology Journal Club
	Weekly  review and discussion of current pertinent literature in oral biology and related fields. 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th sem.		

SDM OB 991: Research: Oral Biology
	Research  to satisfy the requirements for the MS, MSD, DSc, DScD, and PhD degrees. Thesis and dissertation projects  conducted in any of the biomedical sciences with focus on oral structures and/or functions. For the DSc. DScD or PhD degrees a dissertation defense is required. 1st-10th sem. As relevant credit requirements depends on the academic degree. Please see description above.  		

SDM OB 992: Research: Oral Biology
	Research to satisfy the requirements for the MS, MSD, DSc, DScD, and PhD degrees. Thesis and dissertation projects  conducted in any of the biomedical sciences with focus on oral structures and/or functions. For the DSc. DScD or PhD degrees a dissertation defense is required. 1st-10th sem. As relevant credit requirements depends on the academic degree. Please see description above. 		

SDM OB 993: Research: Oral Biology
	Research to satisfy the requirements for the MS, MSD, DSc, DScD, and PhD degrees. Thesis and dissertation projects  conducted in any of the biomedical sciences with focus on oral structures and/or functions. For the DSc. DScD or PhD degrees a dissertation defense is required. 1st-10th sem. As relevant credit requirements depends on the academic degree. Please see description above. 		

SDM OB 994: Research: Oral Biology
	Research to satisfy the requirements for the MS, MSD, DSc, DScD, and PhD degrees. Thesis and dissertation projects  conducted in any of the biomedical sciences with focus on oral structures and/or functions. For the DSc. DScD or PhD degrees a dissertation defense is required. 1st-10th sem. As relevant credit requirements depends on the academic degree. Please see description above.  		

SDM OB 995: Research: Oral Biology
	Research to satisfy the requirements for the MS, MSD, DSc, DScD, and PhD degrees. Thesis and dissertation projects  conducted in any of the biomedical sciences with focus on oral structures and/or functions. For the DSc. DScD or PhD degrees a dissertation defense is required. 1st-10th sem. As relevant credit requirements depends on the academic degree. Please see description above.		

SDM OD 510: Oral Diagnosis/Radiology I
	This web-based course is designed to introduce basic radiology concepts to pre-doctoral dental students. Students will gain knowledge of the basic concepts of how x-rays are created and interact, as well as a familiarity with dental radiographic techniques. This course includes training of students to analyze the biological effects of ionizing radiation.		

SDM OD 522: Oral Diagnosis and Radiology II
	The goals of this course are to present the advanced imaging techniques including extraoral imaging, panoramic imaging and digital imaging. Lectures and case presentations will prepare the students to analyze radiographs and be proficient in interpretation of caries, periodontal disease and periapical pathology. The students will also gain knowledge of the radiographic features of various jaw diseases including cysts, tumors, fibro-osseous lesions, systemic disease, infections and developmental diseases affecting the oral tissues. 		

SDM OD 531: Oral Medicine
	Lectures and case presentations illustrate the diagnosis and treatment of oral mucosal lesions, oral manifestations of systemic diseases and their effects on comprehensive oral health care. 		

SDM OD 640: Clinical Oral Diagnosis &amp; Radiology
	This course consists of clinical rotations in the Division of Oral Diagnosis and Radiology in the third and fourth years. Students expose and interpret radiographs for new dental patients, perform initial screening examination, and diagnose incoming patients. Working with faculty comprehensive-care team leaders, students gain the analytical and decision-making skills necessary to develop a comprehensive treatment plan and coordinate patient care. During rotations students are periodically assigned to the dental emergency clinic. Under the supervision of faculty of the respective clinical departments, students have the opportunity to gain experience in diagnosing and managing patients with acute dental emergencies. The experience includes periodic assignments in managing patients returning for follow-up appointments. Emphasis is on preventive dentistry, patient education, and appropriate triage to meet patient requirements.		

SDM OP 803: Seminar: Operative Dentistry
	Literature review format seminars. Small group discussions to critically review current literature on topics in restorative dentistry. Students design and present lectures to the group. 1st and 2nd sem.		

SDM OP 807: Preclinical Technique
	Laboratory instruction in instrumentation, development of cavity preparation, and provisional restorations. Cavities fabricated and restorative materials placed with attention to outline form, retention and resistance form, line and point angles, reestablishment of tooth morphology, occlusion contact placement, and function. 1st sem.		

SDM OP 820: Treatment Planning Conferences
	This series of monthly seminars focuses on student presentation of their clinical cases for group review and discussion with attending faculty. Semester 1 &amp; 2.		

SDM OP 825: Clinical Case Conferences
	This series of seminars focuses on developing materials and treatment concepts in the application of digital technology for dental treatment. Semester 1 &amp; 2.		

SDM OP 830: Advanced Chairside CAD/CAM Restoration
	This series of seminars and clinical exercises develop knowledge and skills in the application of chairside CAD/CAM restorations for anterior and implant restorations. Semester 1 &amp; 2.		

SDM OP 835: Advanced Laboratory CAD/CAM Restoration
	This series of monthly seminars and clinical exercises develop understanding and skills in applying cone beam computerized tomography (CBCT) and digital technology for the assessment, planning, and treatment with implant restorations and multiple unit fixed partial dentures. Semester 1 &amp; 2.		

