SDM PR 849: Introduction to implant restoration
	This course reviews principles and techniques of restoring osseointegrated root-form implants with fixed and removable dental prostheses. Instructional methods include a Powerpoint presentation of clinical and laboratory procedures for the fabrication of fixed and removable prostheses followed by a hands-on simulation session. 2nd sem.		

SDM PR 852: Implantology for the General Practitioner
	A series of lectures covering the history of implants, tissue bio-compatibility, and bio-mechanics. Encompasses tissue biology, patient selection, diagnosis, treatment planning, and literature review. Includes presentation of oral surgery and prosthodontic considerations utilizing different implant systems. 1st and 2nd sem.		

SDM PR 855: Principles of Surgery for Prosthodontists
	The purpose of this course is to provide prosthodontic residents with didactic and hands-on instruction in basic surgical principles and techniques to prepare the residents for surgical placement of implants in selected patients.		

SDM PR 861: Contemporary Prosthodontic Literature
	This course introduces residents to recent prosthodontic literature and familiarizes them with a variety of primary prosthodontic journals as well as secondary and tertiary journals. Various levels of scientific power within the literature will be investigated to highlight the depth, breadth, and complexity of this relevant body of knowledge. This course is designed to foster among the residents an attitude of "life-long learning" through regular, disciplined reading of the literature. 1st and 2nd sem. 		

SDM PR 862: Contemporary Prosthodontic Literature
	This course introduces residents to recent prosthodontic literature and familiarizes them with a variety of primary prosthodontic journals as well as secondary and tertiary journals. Various levels of scientific power within the literature will be investigated to highlight the depth, breadth, and complexity of this relevant body of knowledge. This course is designed to foster among the residents an attitude of "life-long learning" through regular, disciplined reading of the literature. 3rd and 4th sem. 		

SDM PR 863: Contemporary Prosthodontic Literature
	This course introduces residents to recent prosthodontic literature and familiarizes them with a variety of primary prosthodontic journals as well as secondary and tertiary journals. Various levels of scientific power within the literature will be investigated to highlight the depth, breadth, and complexity of this relevant body of knowledge. This course is designed to foster among the residents an attitude of "life-long learning" through regular, disciplined reading of the literature. 5th and 6th sem. 		

SDM PR 901: Prosthodontic Literature Review
	Current and classical prosthodontic literature as a basis for substantive discussion of concepts in therapy and research. Special emphasis is placed on the principles of evidence-based health care and critical review of the dental literature. 3rd and 4th sem.		

SDM PR 905: General Dentistry Clinic
	This year-long clinical component consists of approximately 1,700 hours of comprehensive patient care. Residents are supervised and evaluated in specific criteria: quality of the clinical work, ability to assess their own work, diagnostic skills, patient referrals, and ability to work with a range of dental specialists. In effect, the residents act as coordinators of the patients' total oral health care. 1st and 2nd sem.		

SDM PR 911: Clinical Prosthodontics
	Advanced clinical experiences in all phases of complex fixed, removable, and implant prosthodontics under direct supervision of the prosthodontic faculty. 1st and 2nd sem. 		

SDM PR 912: Clinical Prosthodontics
	Advanced clinical experiences in all phases of complex fixed, removable, and implant prosthodontics under direct supervision of the prosthodontic faculty. 3rd and 4th sem. 		

SDM PR 913: Clinical Prosthodontics
	Advanced clinical experiences in all phases of complex fixed, removable, and implant prosthodontics under direct supervision of the prosthodontic faculty. 5th and 6th sem. 		

SDM PR 918: Student Teaching
	Graduate students have the opportunity to synthesize their knowledge and experience through involvement with limited, supervised teaching assignments. During these assignments, graduate students act as teaching assistants in the school's predoctoral program. 5th or 6th sem.		

SDM PR 991: Research: Prosthodontics
	Approved investigative effort to satisfy requirements for the MSD degree. Research may involve preclinical and clinical subjects related to prosthodontics or restorative dentistry. 5th and 6th sem.		

SDM PR 992: Research: Prosthodontics DScD
	Approved major research effort to satisfy requirements for the DScD degree. The results of this research must provide a meaningful contribution to the discipline that represents new knowledge. 7th and 8th sem. 		

SDM PR 993: Research: Prosthodontics DScD
	Approved major research effort to satisfy requirements for the DScD degree. The results of this research must provide a meaningful contribution to the discipline that represents new knowledge. 9th and 10th sem.		

SDM RS 510: Dental Anatomy and Occlusion
	The lecture aspect of this course provides the student essential knowledge in the anatomical and morphological characteristics of teeth and their functional relationship to each other as well as to surrounding orofacial structures. Dental terminology is introduced and integrated throughout the course material. The practical component of the course allows the student to practically apply the knowledge obtained from the didactic portion of the course while developing psychomotor skills through the use and manipulation of dental materials. The clinical relevance of this subject matter is emphasized throughout all aspects of the course. 		

SDM RS 516: Biomaterials I
	This course introduces the study of the physical and chemical properties of materials related to the practice of dentistry-their uses, handling, and effects. 		

SDM RS 521: Preclinical Operative Dentistry
	This hands-on simulated clinic course provides demonstrations, experience and skill development with the procedures related to direct and indirect intracoronal tooth restorations.		

SDM RS 522: Removable Prosthodontics I
	This comprehensive lecture course addresses complete and partial denture construction.		

SDM RS 523: Preclinical Removable Prosthodontics
	This simulated clinic course provides experience and skill development with the procedures related to complete and partial denture construction. 		

