SDM PR 807: Patient Presentation and Treatment Planning Seminar
	Series of seminars on diagnosis and treatment planning for patients with complex prosthodontic needs. Residents develop expertise in comprehensive treatment planning along with the development of presentation skills. 1st and 2nd sem. 		

SDM PR 808: Patient Presentation and Treatment Planning Seminar
	Series of seminars on diagnosis and treatment planning for patients with complex prosthodontic needs. Residents develop expertise in comprehensive treatment planning along with the development of presentation skills.  3rd and 4th sem. 		

SDM PR 809: Patient Presentation and Treatment Planning Seminar
	Series of seminars on diagnosis and treatment planning for patients with complex prosthodontic needs. Residents develop expertise in comprehensive treatment planning along with the development of presentation skills. 5th and 6th sem. 		

SDM PR 810: Case Presentation and Treatment Planning Seminar
	Comprehensive patient care conference exploring diagnosis, treatment planning and management of ongoing clinical cases.		

SDM PR 812: Prosthodontics Seminar and Literature Review
	An in-depth review of procedures and techniques in restorative dentistry, including an extensive review of a wide range of research articles discussing restorative procedures and innovations. 1st sem.		

SDM PR 813: Literature Review in General Dentistry
	A weekly seminar and review of current and classic articles of different disciplines in general dentistry. 1st and 2nd sem.		

SDM PR 815: Basic Prosthodontic Techniques
	Laboratory course in which students participate in preclinical prosthodontic techniques and concepts, as well as advanced laboratory techniques. 1st sem.		

SDM PR 818: Principles of Gnathology
	Review of the historical development of gnathologic principles and techniques, including the use of the pantograph and completely adjustable articulator.		

SDM PR 821: Maxillofacial Prosthetics
	A comprehensive didactic program focusing on all aspects of the rehabilitation of patients with congenital and acquired maxillofacial defects.		

SDM PR 825: Postdoctoral Biomaterials
	In-depth discussion of all dental materials related to the practice of restorative dentistry. Reviews the latest polymer and ceramic chemistry as well as the metallurgy of precious and nonprecious metals. 1st and 2nd sem.		

SDM PR 828: Esthetic Dentistry
	Introduces residents to principles, treatment planning, treatment methodology and the most recent developments in esthetic dentistry. Course is designed to prepare residents to diagnose, plan and provide clinical care to patients with problems related to dental esthetics. Topics include: principles of esthetic dentistry, tooth bleaching, use of direct and indirect resins, ceramic veneers, ceramic inlays/onlays, esthetics in fixed prosthodontics. 1st and 2nd sem.		

SDM PR 830: Advanced Biomaterials
	Two-semester course intended primarily for master's and doctor of science degree candidates. Lectures and seminars focus on topics in dental biomaterials including research methodology and update on the chemical, physical, and biological properties and clinical applications of ceramics, metals, composites, and other dental materials. 5th and 6th sem.		

SDM PR 832: Temperomandibular Disorders and Orofacial Pain
	A comprehensive review of the anatomy, physiology, and pathology of the temporomandibular articulation and muscles of mastication. Pathophysiology of pain along with methods of diagnosis and treatment of orofacial pain. Special emphasis on the multidisciplinary management of patients with head and neck pain. 4th sem.		

SDM PR 834: Temporomandibular Disorders, Occlusion and Orofacial Pain
	Orofacial pain is a component of dentistry concerned with the oral health care of patients with pain associate with the hard and soft tissues of the head, face and neck. The didactic lectures included in this course cover the spectrum of temporomandibular disorders (TMD) and other chronic orofacial pain conditions (trigeminal neuralgia, atypical odontalgia and burning mouth syndrome). Principles of Occlusion are also included in this course. 1 cr, 1st sem.		

SDM PR 840: Practice Management for the General Practitioner
	Addresses many of the non-technical aspects of dental practice, including office location, design, financing and management of auxiliary staff. Discusses principles of peer review, quality management, business management and practice development, professional ethics, managed care, alternative health care delivery systems, referral issues, insurance, retirement plans, and investing strategies. 		

SDM PR 844: Implantology Literature Review
	A seminar course consisting of a comprehensive review of the current and classical literature in implantology and related fields. Review of the literature is followed by comment and discussion conducted by one of the masters in the field. 1st and 2nd sem.		

SDM PR 845: Implantology Topics
	A presentation course given by leading experts of implantology topics with emphasis on current and classical implantology topics. 1st and 2nd sem.		

SDM PR 846: Implantology Case Presentation
	A case presentation course by periodontology, prosthodontic and oral surgery residents on a variety of clinical implantology topics. 1st and 2nd sem. 		

SDM PR 847: Implantology Case Presentation
	A case presentation course by periodontology, prosthodontic and oral surgery residents on a variety of clinical implantology topics. 3rd and 4th sem. 		

SDM PR 848: Implantology Case Presentation
	A case presentation course by periodontology, prosthodontic and oral surgery residents on a variety of clinical implantology topics. 5th and 6th sem.		

