CFA MP 615: Piano Pedagogy 1
	An historical overview of the main treatises in Piano Pedagogy as well as teaching methods and materials for use in private and group instruction. The first semester deals with literature and musical concepts as they relate to beginning pianists. The second semester covers some of the major repertoire of the common practice period as well as the work of Ortmann and Schultz. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 616: Piano Pedagogy 2
	A continuation of the topics begun in Piano Pedagogy MU708, this course begins with the pedagogical works of Ortmann and Schultz and focuses on teaching techniques for more advanced students. Piano works of major composers are discussed with emphasis on literature selection for different phases of pianistic development. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 621: Collaborative Piano Skills
	Ensemble and accompaniment skill-building for piano performance majors seeking additional collaborative experience. Vocal and instrumental repertoire; recommended additional weekly accompaniment of music majors Serves as Music Organization credit for piano majors only. May be repeated for credit with permission of instructor. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 622: Collaborative Piano
	Analysis and practice in piano accompaniment of singers and instrumentalists; sight reading and transposition; discussion of style and performance. May be repeated for credit. 2.0 credits.		

CFA MP 635: Performance Techniques for the Singing Actor 1
	Fundamental stage techniques. Basic stage language, movement, presentation skills, and fundamentals of acting for recital and opera. No audition necessary. Some Opera Workshop participants may be asked to take Performance Techniques as a pre-requisite to casting in scenes.		

CFA MP 636: Performance Techniques for the Singing Actor 2
	Continuation of CFA MP635. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 640: Orchestra Techniques: Strings
	For advanced performers on orchestral instruments. Problems for various instruments in standard orchestral literature. Graduate students only. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 641: String Pedagogy and Practicum 1
	Teaching methods and materials for use in private and group instruction; literature concerned with leading teachers' approaches to acquiring musical skills and understanding. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 642: String Pedagogy and Practicum 2
	Teaching methods and materials for use in private and group instruction; literature concerned with leading teachers' approaches to acquiring musical skills and understanding. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 643: String Literature 3
	Study and performance of string chamber music literature from the Baroque to the present. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 644: String Literature 4
	Study and performance of string chamber music literature from the Baroque to the present. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 645: String Pedagogy and Practicum 1
	Teaching methods and materials for use in private and group instruction; literature concerned with leading teachers' approaches to acquiring musical skills and understanding.		

CFA MP 646: String Pedagogy and Practicum 2
	Teaching methods and materials for use in private and group instruction; literature concerned with leading teachers' approaches to acquiring musical skills and understanding. 2.0 credits.		

CFA MP 647: String Pedagogy and Practicum 3
	Continuation of String Pedagogy I and II, including study of additional methods, approaches and resources, and evaluation of hands on teaching experience.		

CFA MP 648: String Pedagogy and Practicum 4
	Continuation of String Pedagogy I, II, and III including study of additional methods, approaches and resources, and evaluation of hands on teaching experience.		

CFA MP 649: Hrp Ped/Lit/Ens
			

CFA MP 650: Orchestral Techniques: Woodwinds
	For advanced performers on orchestral instruments. Problems for various instruments in standard orchestral literature. Graduate students only. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 660: Orchestral Techniques: Brass
	For advanced performers on orchestral instruments. Problems for various instruments in standard orchestral literature. Graduate students only. 1 cr..		

CFA MP 663: Trombone Literature
	Students will meet one hour a week with a specialist trombone instructor.  Students will do a comprehensive study of trombone literature. Listening assignments will be assigned. Students will compile from these discussions a comprehensive annotated music literature list, of their designated instrument for future use.  1.0 credit.		

CFA MP 670: Percussion Ensemble
	For advanced performers on orchestral instruments. Study and preparation of standard orchestral excerpts, critique and mock-auditions. 1.0 credit.		

