CFA TH 426: Classical Techniques in Contemporary Acting
	Prereq: Consent of instructor; In this course, considerable time will be spent investigating how classical training can enhance the embodiment of contemporary text. We will use acting techniques perhaps more commonly associated with classical work to explore contemporary plays that contain either heightened language or elevated ideas, or both. We may sample historical texts from time to time, as they prove useful in the approach to contemporary material. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 427: Theatre Ensemble 4: Thesis Development
	Prereq: CFA TH 227 or CFA TH 228 or CFA TH 327; This course serves as the culminating experience for senior Theatre Arts majors. The course involves the process of selecting a thesis project, choosing partners with whom to collaborate, then coming together as an ensemble to determine the process for producing the projects in the spring semester. Topics include developing a company mission, goals and priorities, as well as fundraising and marketing. Part one of a two semester-long course. Required all senior BFA Theatre Arts majors. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 428: Senior Thesis: Theatre Arts
	Prereq: CFA TH 427, plus prior academic experience in directing, choreography, or playwriting depending on the individual focus of a student's thesis project participation. Students form a company to present a festival of plays at the end of the semester. Thesis work can focus on playwriting, producing, directing, dramaturgy, or performance and project collaboration is strongly encouraged. 3.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 429: Understanding the Camera
	Prereq: SOT Only (majors and minors), senior standing or permission from instructor. This course is designed to provide students an acclimation to the artistic and professional transition of "on‐camera" work. Class work will focus on the development of on‐camera skills through performance practice and editing for presentation. Students will develop their own material individually and in groups. An introduction to basic film making (lighting, sound, editing), marking, scene takes and script analysis will help develop an understanding of how to create more dynamic and complete characters created specifically for the screen. In‐depth analysis of the current medium as it exists in all markets (film, television, and online) will be a constant element of the course. 2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 430: Film/Television Lab
	Fall Semester: In the first semester of this course students develop skills on how to prepare for professional work in Film and Television. Lectures and workshops will focus on the process of auditioning/casting for film and television and will help students to identify their potential for success in that medium (even in areas beyond acting). Various scenarios for meetings/auditions/screen tests will help to make students "industry-ready" and serve as a precursor to the post graduate "Acting in Hollywood" program 2.0 credits. Fall semester.   Spring Semester: In the second semester College of Fine Arts and College of Communication students work in collaboration to rehearse, develop and film material for presentation. The course emphasizes building stronger communication in the actor and director relationship especially as it relates to the artistic on camera storytelling process. The course meets weekly for both in class exercises, development of camera technique, as well as filmed scene presentation and critique. However, students should be prepared to commit additional hours outside of class for rehearsal and at times the filming of their scenes. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 431: Movement 4: Thesis Development
	Prereq: CFA TH 331; Explorations of physical theatre, choreography, and movement styles for non-verbal requirement of BFA Acting thesis.		

CFA TH 432: Movement 4: Commedia dell'Arte
	Prereq: Permission of instructor; Commedia dell'Arte: Introduction to the 16th and 17th century form of Italian street theatre based on improvised scenarios. Actors explore the stock characters of the old men, lovers, servants, and warriors, and learn techniques for mask transformations and physical comedy. 1.0 credit 		

CFA TH 437: Alexander Technique 4: The Actor's Consciousness
	Prereq: CFA TH 337; In-depth study of Carl Stough's breathing coordination principles. Continue to develop skills to understand what is the actor's consciousness and what is character's consciousness. Private coaching and hands on scene work to attain high-level performance techniques. 1.0 credit. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 438: Alexander Technique 4: Thesis Application
	Prereq: CFA TH437 or consent of instructor; Team taught with Judy Braha. Coaching for a scene with an Alexander teacher and an Acting teacher together helps the students to attain high-level performance techniques. 1.0  credit. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 440: Experiencing London Theatre in the Postwar World
	The objective of this course will be to relate the experience of the internship to the overall picture of contemporary British theatre in London. To understand a broad range of the major developments in British drama over the past 70 years and to relate drama to broad changes in British society. In addition the class will examine the work of specific writers and directors in detail and stimulate critical analysis through written work and discussion, as well as understanding the role of the Arts council and state subsidy of the performing arts. The ultimate aim is to demonstrate an awareness of British theatre, and an insight into how it is organized and why it has developed in its present form. 4.0 credits. Course offered through Boston University London Internship Program.		

CFA TH 441: Undergraduate Directing Colloquium 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 341; Projects with undergraduate theatre majors in plays of various lengths. Focus is on preparation for rehearsal and on rehearsal process. 2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 442: Undergraduate Directing Colloquium 3
	Prereq: CFA TH441 or permission of instructor, concurrent registration with CFA DR428; Projects with undergraduate theatre majors in plays of various lengths. Focus is on preparation for rehearsal and on rehearsal process. 2.0 credits		

CFA TH 443: Exp London Thea
			

CFA TH 447: Rehearsal &amp; Performance 3
	Rehearsal/Performance &amp; Production assignment work for participation in the School of Theatre Quarter 1 and Quarter 2 productions. Faculty assignment is based on faculty advising on a given production, all students should first register for the "X1-Staff" section at 1.0 credit per quarter of casting. After the student has been cast, they will be re-sectioned to the appropriate faculty advisor in charge of grading for that project. Course for SOT population only. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 448: Rehearsal &amp; Performance 4
	Rehearsal/Performance &amp; Production assignment work for participation in the School of Theatre Quarter 3 and Quarter 4 productions. Faculty assignment is based on faculty advising on a given production, all students should first register for the "X1-Staff" section at 1.0 credit per quarter of casting. After the student has been cast, they will be re-sectioned to the appropriate faculty advisor in charge of grading for that project. Course for SOT population only. Variable credits. Spring semester.  		

CFA TH 450: Senior Thesis: Acting
	Prereq: CFA TH 421; This course serves as the culminating experience for Senior BFA Acting majors. Involves the mounting of Acting thesis projects that been developed during the fall semester, including their rehearsal, production, and performance. Thesis projects must include specific categories of materials and will be presented in collaboration with the rest of their ensemble. Part two of a two semester-long course. Required course for all senior Acting majors. 2.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 451: D&amp;P Senior Thesis
	Prereq: Senior status; Meets as arranged. A major independent project presented to the faculty and student body as the final requirement for the BFA degree. The project is chosen with approval of the advisor and presented on a schedule established by the School of Theatre. The project is given public exhibition or performance. 3.0 credits.  Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 452: D&amp;P Senior Thesis
	Prereq: Senior status;  Meets as arranged. A major independent project presented to the faculty and student body as the final requirement for the BFA degree. The project is chosen with approval of the advisor and presented on a schedule established by the School of Theatre. The project is given public exhibition or performance. 3.0 credits.  Spring semester.		

CFA TH 453: Master Class: Undergrad
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; A laboratory/workshop class which created the opportunities to explore individual and collaborative ideas and problem solving in the creation of theatre. Emphasis is placed on the student's personal discovery of their own unique approach to their work and their involvement in the larger community of theatre artists. 2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 454: Master Class: Undergrad
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; A laboratory/workshop class which created the opportunities to explore individual and collaborative ideas and problem solving in the creation of theatre. Emphasis is placed on the student's personal discovery of their own unique approach to their work and their involvement in the larger community of theatre artists. 2.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

