CFA ME 604: Secondary Methods
	Prereq: CFA MU 659. Philosophy and goals for the music program in grades 5 through 12. Study of the implication of national and state music standards for secondary level program development. Understanding of adolescent thinking and behavior. Understanding of the relationship among general music, choral, and instrumental music instruction at the secondary level. Development of teaching and rehearsal plans as well as assessment strategies. Peer teaching and evaluation of lesson plans. Field Experience: 25 hours of weekly Friday morning group observations of secondary level music teachers or sustained internship in a secondary level music program. 4 cr. 		

CFA ME 605: Choral Methods
	Choral music and teaching methods for large and small school ensembles including children's choirs, adolescent choirs, and mixed and single-gender choirs. Vocal attributes and ranges of all age groups. Development of age-appropriate vocal warm-ups, head voice, and healthy vocal production techniques. Choral literature studied will include unison, SA, SSA, SAB, TTBB, and SATB repertoire. Emphasis on ensemble development, literature selection, concert presentation, and development of a sequential choral program from elementary through high school. 2 cr. 		

CFA ME 606: Instrumental Methods
	Study of techniques employed in the teaching of instruments and instrumental ensembles in school settings. Comparative analysis of instrumental method series and scores for beginning students in homogeneous and heterogeneous class settings. Extension of lesson and ensemble instruction to middle and high school levels. Emphasis on ensemble development, literature selection, concert presentations, and development of a sequential instrumental program from elementary through high school. 2 cr. 		

CFA ME 607: Music Technology in Schools
	Function and use of music education technology; development and use of computer, audio, video, and visual materials for the teaching of music. Graduate students only.		

CFA ME 610: Practicum Seminar
	Required for undergraduate and graduate Music Education students registered for Practicum.  First semester seminar topics will include development of an educational philosophy, resume preparation, job interviewing, and classroom behavior management.    Second semester seminar topics include a refresher on job interviewing, assessment, public and parental relations, and music program advocacy.   Case study sessions will help seniors analyze complicated classroom situations.  Students will be guided through the teacher licensure process and readied for entry into the music education job market. 0 cr. 2 semesters. 		

CFA ME 611: Practicum 1 K-5
	Pre-K-5. Supervised student teaching in grades K-5, weekly seminar, individual conferences with University supervisor. Six weeks; minimum 150 hours required. 4 cr. each semester.		

CFA ME 612: Practicum 2 5-8
	Supervised student teaching in 5-8; weekly seminar, minimum of 150 clock hours; weekly seminar; individual conferences with University supervisor. 4 cr. each semester.		

CFA ME 613: Practicum 3 8-12
	Supervised student teaching in grades 8 through 12; six weeks, minimum of 150 clock hours; weekly seminar; individual conferences with University supervisor. 4 cr. each semester.		

CFA ME 621: Creativity and Imagination in General Music
	Students will examine general music instruction through the lenses of higher oral thinking, multiple intelligences, and connectivity. This course will present ways that general music teachers can become reflective practitioners who stimulate their students to react powerfully and imaginatively to music. Teaching that provokes inquiry and creativity will be emphasized. A variety of published and teacher-constructed curriculum materials will be examined, critiqued, and analyzed for their ability to stimulate active student engagement, to anchor core music concepts, to address national and state standards, and to connect music with academic learning. Students will be challenged to create, compose, experiment, research, and design curriculum materials that are substantive, thought-provoking, vivid, and memorable.  2 cr.		

CFA ME 622: Curriculum Planning for General Music
	Students will study current educational thought on how learners come to understand, value, utilize, transfer, and retain what they learn. Focusing on implementing national and state music standards, students work in cooperative cohorts to develop a three year curriculum sequence of units for general music. The backward planning paradigm and curriculum mapping will assist students in their work. Authentic assessment of achievement will be integrated into all curriculum plans. 2 cr. 		

CFA ME 661: Jazz History and Performance Techniques 1
	Open to non-music majors and music majors for elective credit with advisor approval. Introduction to the American musical art form through recordings, videos, discussion, concerts and workshops; also an introduction to the role of jazz in education. 2 cr.		

CFA ME 662: Jazz History and Performance Techniques 2
	Open to non-music majors and music majors for elective credit with advisor approval. Introduction to the American musical art form through recordings, videos, discussion, concerts and workshops; also an introduction to the role of jazz in education. 2 cr.		

CFA ME 681: Orff Schulw 1
			

CFA ME 682: Orff Schulw 2
			

CFA ME 683: Orff Schulw 3
			

CFA ME 701: Foundations of Music Education I: Philosophy and History
	Introduction to historical and philosophical foundations of music education. An intensive reading and research seminar course in the history of educational thought and practices in music education in the United States from the Colonial Period to modern times. The course has two distinct disciplinary components; historical research and philosophical discourse in music education. 		

CFA ME 702: Foundations of Music Education II: Sociology and Psychology
	The purpose of this course is to critically examine psychological and sociological concepts as they relate to music and education. Topics include key issues and concepts in psychology and sociology; psychology as related to music educational processes; problems encountered in the sociology of music education; and cultural influences that affect both the psychology of the individual and sociological aspects of group dynamics. 4.0 credits.		

CFA ME 711: Introduction to Music Education Research
	Overview of music education research. Research design and methodology to include development of hypotheses, problems and subproblems, qualitative research, survey, observational, causal comparative, experimental, evaluation, and historical research. Ability to understand, interpret, and use research in teaching and learning. Designed primarily for master's degree students. 		

CFA ME 740: Introduction to Music Education Research
	In this course, students become acquainted with a variety of research that informs music education, learn both to critique and apply that research, and develop their scholarly writing skills.  Note:  This course is typically waived for DMA students who have enrolled in a similar course during Master's degree study.		

CFA ME 751: Community Music Perspectives
	Drawing upon the social, cultural, political, and economic milieu including movements in music education, music therapy and ethnomusicology, this course first examines reasons for the growth and development of community music. Students will be asked to trace an aspect of community music that may be considered as part of its heritage and also to evaluate and critique a contemporary community music project through fieldwork. Students will then be in a position to articulate their own vision for community music both as a practicum and as a scholarly pursuit.		

