CFA AR 848: Graduate Painting 2
	Continuation of Graduate Painting 1; emphasizes the work to be presented as the student's exhibit thesis. This group of paintings is developed in individual consultation with the graduate faculty and is presented in a major exhibit at the end of the second year of graduate study. 3 cr, each semester.		

CFA AR 861: Pro/Seminar (2 credits; spring semester)
	Art education student teachers witness faculty and guests who address their areas of expertise, and engage a learning community comprised of peers and professionals in meaningful, substantive dialogue.  Students demonstrate the value of engaging in constructive conversations with people of differing opinions; show the commitment of BU, the College of Fine Arts, the School of Visual Arts, and the Department of Art Teacher and Museum Education to the life of the mind of those in the art community; and invite the larger community to see the results of studio teaching and learning.  Graduate students in the studio teaching program take this course in conjunction with CFA AR 767 and undergraduate art education majors take this course in conjunction with CFA AR 365/366. 		

CFA AR 864: Elementary Methods of Art Education (4 credits; fall semester)
	From the kinesthetic experiences of rhythmic movement experienced by very young children to the development of individual symbol systems to develop a personal artistic language, this course provides an introduction to the methodology of teaching art to children in grades pre K-8.  It aims to help students develop a personal philosophy of teaching and to translate evidence and theory into strategies that support children's learning in the visual arts.  Topics of study include the artistic development of children in relation to cognitive, emotional, linguistic, and social growth; approaches to studio pedagogy and general communication skills; and lesson planning that addresses voluntary and mandated national, state, and local district curriculum standards.  Drawing in the Galleries is a pre-practicum Saturday program offered one or two times during the fall by the Department of Art Teacher and Museum Education. Students who are taking this course engage K-8 grade level learners from Boston metropolitan area elementary schools in producing art work that is thematically aligned with current exhibitions in University galleries.  		

CFA AR 865: Art Curric Plan
	This course description is currently under construction.		

CFA AR 866: Secondary Methods of Art Education (4 credits; spring semester)
	This course is designed to acquaint the learner with the role of an art educator in the secondary setting.  Art content and concepts are used to teach the ways in which the design of studio learning experiences can enhance students' artistic, creative, and aesthetic development.  The cognitive, socio-cultural, and physical characteristics of pre-adolescent and adolescent learners that impact sound instructional methodology and planning as perceived by the school, the student(s), and the teacher are considered.		

CFA AR 881: Graduate Graphic Design 1
	Comprehensive exercises in graphic design leading to the solution of advanced visual problems through a structured curriculum of both theoretical and practical studies. In addition to computer-aided graphic design, traditional methods, such as letterpress and photography are emphasized. The program is conceived to enable graduates to function in a constantly changing and expanding field. 3 cr, each semester.		

CFA AR 882: Graduate Graphic Design 1
	A continuation of CFA AR 881. Comprehensive exercises in graphic design leading to the solution of advanced visual problems through a structured curriculum of both theoretical and practical studies. In addition to computer-aided graphic design, traditional methods, such as letterpress and photography are emphasized. The program is conceived to enable graduates to function in a constantly changing and expanding field. 3 cr, each semester.		

CFA AR 883: Graduate Graphic Design 2
	A continuation of Graduate Graphic Design 1, emphasizing the thesis-an advanced and extensive individual project proposed by the student in consultation with the graphic design faculty. The thesis project is explored in depth and presented in a major exhibit at the end of the second year. Independent contact with faculty members is stressed. 3 cr, each semester.		

CFA AR 884: Graduate Graphic Design 2
	A continuation of CFA AR 883. Emphasizes the thesis - an advanced and extensive individual project proposed by the student in consultation with the graphic design faculty. The thesis project is explored in depth and presented in a major exhibit at the end of the second year. Independent contact with faculty members is stressed. Offered each semester. 3.0 credits.		

CFA AR 988: Continuing Study Certification
			

CFA ME 081: Orff Schulw 1
			

CFA ME 082: Orff Schulw 2
			

CFA ME 083: Orff Schulw 3
			

CFA ME 171: Brass Class
	Familiarization of brass instruments (trumpet, trombone, French horn, baritone, trombone and tuba). Basic performance skills as well as pedagogical techniques for teaching brass instruments to beginners will be developed. Knowledge of methodologies and maintenance of brass instruments will also be developed. Music reading skills required. 1 cr. 		

CFA ME 172: Percussion Class
	Familiarization of percussion instruments (snare drum, marimba, timpani, auxiliary percussion instruments). Basic performance skills as well as pedagogical techniques for teaching percussion instruments to beginners will be developed. Knowledge of methodologies and maintenance of percussion instruments will also be developed. Music reading skills required. 1 cr. 		

CFA ME 173: Woodwind Class
	Familiarization of the woodwind instruments (clarinet, flute, oboe, bassoon, and saxophone). Basic performance skills, as well as pedagogical techniques for woodwind instruments to beginners will be developed. Knowledge of methodologies and maintenance of woodwind instruments will also be developed. Music reading skills required. 1.0 credit. 		

CFA ME 174: String Class
	Familiarization with string instruments. Basic performance skills as well as pedagogical techniques for teaching string instruments to beginners will be developed. Knowledge of methodologies and maintenance of the instruments will also be developed. Music reading skills required. 1 cr. 		

CFA ME 201: Art of Teaching 1
	This first in the sequence of music education "methods" courses examines the personal attributes and professional skills of music teachers whose work with children is categorized as "artful." Through readings, films, discussions, reflections, and sustained teaching experiences with young children in an urban school, students will be introduced to the many roles that music educators play while simultaneously reflecting on personal motivations for becoming a music teacher. This course emphasizes acquisition of instructional "moves" and strategies as it engages students in becoming astute, analytical, and empathic observers of teachers and students in classroom settings. Issues of poverty and social class as they relate to music teaching and learning are examined.  Weekly filed work experiences (sustained internship) help the student to gain confidence in dealing with children in urban elementary school settings. Weekly singing in class on campus will help students become more confident vocalists as they build a repertoire of songs for use in schools.  All students will begin construction of an e-portfolio, regularly and independently, adding artifacts produced in this course, in their internships, and through their musical studies. The e-portfolio will be presented for music education faculty and peer review in the latter part of the second semester of this course.		

CFA ME 202: Art of Teaching 2
	This course is a continuation of ME201/601 Art of Teaching 1  Acquisition of additional instructional skills related to expectations, classroom climate, use of time, classroom space, routines, teaching momentum, and learners with special needs. Principles of learning and classroom behavior management techniques are observed and practiced including introduction to music teaching pedagogy and lesson planning, analysis of teacher attributes, teaching techniques through a sustained internship in a Boston high school, weekly written reflections, and class discussions. Continued examination and analysis of the attributes of artful teaching as portrayed in films about skillful teachers. Weekly fieldwork experiences (sustained internship) help the student to gain confidence in dealing with urban students at the secondary level. Weekly singing in class helps students to become more confident vocalists as they build a repertoire of songs for use in schools. Sophomores will complete e-portfolios, regularly adding artifacts created in this course. Portfolios will be presented before the music education faculty in the latter part of this semester.  		

CFA ME 261: Jazz 1: Performance &amp; Context
	Open to non-music majors and music majors for elective credit with advisor approval. Introduction to the American musical art form through recordings, videos, discussion, concerts and workshops; also an introduction to the role of jazz in education. 2 cr. 		

