CFA TH 782: Fabric Dyeing 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 781 or consent of instructor; The student learns a variety of crafts associated with fabric painting and dyeing.  Subject matter may include fiber reactive dyeing, distressing and silk screening. Check with instructor for current semester content. 1.0 credit. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 783: Lighting Design Studio 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 684 or consent of instructor; Investigation of lighting design problems and procedures.  Projects for both theoretical and realized productions.  Practical projects to demonstrate lighting design techniques.  Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 784: Lighting Design Studio 4
	Prereq: CFA TH 783 or consent of instructor; A continuation of CFA TH 783. Investigation of lighting design problems and procedures.  Projects for both theoretical and realized productions.  Practical projects to demonstrate lighting design techniques.  Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.   		

CFA TH 785: Choreography and Design: Experiments in Light and Movement
	Prereq: Graduate Standing or instructor permission; A course intended for lighting designers, actors, directors and dancers to develop theatrical work integrating light and movement. The goal of the course is to provide a workshop environment that fosters the development of new forms of theatrical expression involving light and movement.  Weekly assignments involve light sources, movement and light, conventions involving space, time, flow and hue; improvisations; and experimentation with theatrical ideas, character development and storytelling involving light and movement.  Rehearsal times on Sundays and Monday evenings expected outside of regular class times.  2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 786: Lghtng Crafts
			

CFA TH 789: Systems Design 1
	Prereq: Grad Standing or consent of instructor; Audio systems, video systems and intercom systems will be examined from input to output in terms of signal flow and interconnection practices and how they are used. Offered in odd numbered AY. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.   		

CFA TH 790: Systems Design 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 789 or consent of instructor; Audio systems, video systems and intercom systems will be examined from input to output in terms of signal flow and interconnection practices and how they are used. Offered in odd numbered AY. 3.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 795: Production Management Studio 1
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; Roles and responsibilities of Production Managing on a professional level, including scheduling, staffing, budgeting, relationships and time management. Students will get hands-on experience in each of these through the creation of a theoretical theatre company. 3.0 credits.  Fall semester.		

CFA TH 796: Production Management Studio 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 795 or consent of instructor; Roles and responsibilities of Production Managing on a professional level, including scheduling, staffing, budgeting, relationships and time management. Students will get hands-on experience in each of these through the creation of a theoretical theatre company. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 797: Production
	Prereq: Graduate standing; Each semester that a 2nd year graduate student in Design &amp; Production is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Production.  Meets late afternoons, evenings and/or weekends.  Specific design and shop work in the mounting of student or professional productions. Does not include off-crew design work. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 798: Production
	Prereq: Graduate standing; Each semester that a 2nd year graduate student in Design &amp; Production is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Production.  Meets late afternoons, evenings and/or weekends.  Specific design and shop work in the mounting of student or professional productions. Does not include off-crew design work. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 830: Theatre Education Colloquium
	Weekly meeting of graduate students in the MFA Theatre Education program to discuss the progress in their study and challenges faced either in studio or rehearsal/production. Topics vary from week to week, but include guest artist visits and special collaborative events with other MFA students. Each semester that an MFA Theatre Education candidate is in residence at SOT he/she is required to enroll in this course. Course repeatable for credit. Fall &amp; Spring semesters.		

CFA TH 840: Graduate Directing Colloquium
	Weekly meeting of graduate students in the MFA Directing program to discuss the progress in their study and challenges faced either in studio or rehearsal/production. Topics vary from week to week, but include guest artist visits and special collaborative events with other MFA students. Each semester that an MFA Directing candidate is in residence at SOT he/she is required to enroll in this course. Course repeatable for credit. Fall &amp; Spring semesters.		

CFA TH 841: Graduate Directing 1
	Prereq: Graduate standing; MFA Directing students in their first semester of rehearsal/production experience will assistant director on two projects either for the School of Theatre or one of its Professional Theatre Initiative affiliates. 2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 842: Graduate Directing 2
	Prereq: Graduate standing; MFA Directing students in their second semester of rehearsal/performance experience will direct two projects. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 843: Graduate Directing 3
	Prereq: Graduate standing; MFA Directing students in their third semester of rehearsal/performance experience will assistant direct one project and direct another. 2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 844: Graduate Directing 4
	Prereq: Graduate standing; MFA Directing students in their fourth semester of rehearsal/performance experience will direct two projects. In preparation for the culminating thesis project in the third year. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 855: History of Period Styles 3
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; A survey covering the history of social, political and cultural movements and the expressions of those movements through architecture, interior decoration, furniture and dress in major civilizations. Work involves research projects and presentations.  2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 856: History of Period Styles 4
	Prereq: CFA TH 855 or consent of instructor; A continuation of CFA TH 855. A survey covering the history of social, political and cultural movements and the expressions of those movements through architecture, interior decoration, furniture and dress in major civilizations. Work involves research projects and presentations.  2.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 859: Photoshop 1
	Prereq: Graduate standing consent of instructor; A survey covering the history of social, political and cultural movements and the expressions of those movements through architecture, interior decoration, furniture and dress in major civilizations. Work involves research projects and presentations. 1.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

