CFA MH 622: History and Literature of the Keyboard 2
	From piano music of Mendelssohn to contemporary repertory; emphasis on impact of virtuosity and perfection of idiomatic writing in the keyboard style of the nineteenth century. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 623: History and Literature of Opera
	Rossini, Donizetti, and Bellini; sociopolitical backgrounds of Italian opera in the nineteenth century; Verdi: Aida, Otello, Falstaff; verismo and its exponents. Influence of Wagner on Italian opera; Giacomo Puccini. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 625: History and Literature of the Concerto
	Comparison of Baroque, Classical, Romantic, and twentieth-century approaches to the concerto. Role of the virtuoso in development of the form. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 626: History and Literature of Art Song
	The German Lied, the French art song, and other European art songs in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Emphasis on Schubert, Schumann, Brahms, Wolf, Mussorgsky, Faure, and Debussy. 3.0 credits.		

CFA MH 627: History and Literature of Large Choral Forms
	Development of choral music from the Renaissance period to the present: motets, masses, madrigals, oratorios, cantatas, and combined media, sacred and secular. 3 cr.  		

CFA MH 628: History &amp; Literature of Chamber Music
	Historical development and close readings of the chamber music repertory from Baroque sonatas to contemporary works, for strings, winds, and mixed ensemble. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 629: History of Performance Practice
	Choral and instrumental performance practices from medieval times to the present. Ornamentation and improvisation. Notation problems. Pitch, tuning, and temperament. Tempi and dynamics. Early instruments and early music. Growth and development of the orchestra. Editorial practices. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 631: Individual Composers
	This course will study the work of a single composer in depth, analyzing the work as a product both of individual style and of historical and cultural context. 3 cr. May be repeated for credit.		

CFA MH 661: West African Drumming
	Through the experience of playing in a drumming circle led by a master drummer, students will learn authentic performance techniques and will gain confidence in rhythmic improvisation. Cultural, societal, and historical contexts will be studied informing students about the importance of drumming in all segments of African societies. 2 cr.		

CFA MH 710: Res&amp;Bibliogrphy
			

CFA MH 711: Research and Bibliography
	Methods and materials of research in music; bibliography and bibliographical aids; individual treatment in special areas; style in formal writing; leading historians of past and present; introduction to musicology. 3cr		

CFA MH 715: Writing DMA Recital Notes
	A course that guides the DMA student on the Lecture Recital track to conceptualize, research, and create the materials required for the Lecture Recital.		

CFA MH 721: Music in the Middle Ages
	The Greek heritage. Music from Gregory the Great to the death of Dunstable, religious and secular monody: Gregorian chant, troubador music. Origin and development of medieval polyphonic forms and techniques. Major musical manuscript and theoretical writings. Meets with CFA MH 821. 3 cr.    		

CFA MH 722: Music in the Renaissance
	Sacred and secular music from the fifteenth to the early seventeenth century. Development of larger religious and secular polyphonic forms: mass, psalmody, hymnody, chanson, frottola, madrigal. Early instrumental forms. Music of Dufay, Ockeghem, Josquin, Gesualdo, Lassus, Palestrina, Gabrieli, and Byrd.  Meets with CFA MH 822.  3 cr.		

CFA MH 723: Music of the Baroque
	Topics may include madrigals, monody, early opera, sacred and secular cantatas, individual composers' and national styles, instrumental music, reception, cultural context, notation, analysis, and performance of Baroque music. Permission of instructor.   Meets with CFA MH 823.3 credits.May be repeated for credit. 		

CFA MH 724: Music of the Classic Era
	Topics may include opera, symphony, chamber music, the Lied, sacred music, individual composers' and national styles, cultural context, reception, notation, analysis, and performance of Classic music. Permission of instructor. Meets with CFA MU 824. 3 credits. May be repeated for credit. 		

CFA MH 725: Music in the Romantic Period
	Topics may include program music, opera, symphony, chamber music, the Lied, sacred music, individual composers' and national styles, cultural context, reception, notation, analysis, and performance of Romantic music. Permission of instructor. Meets with CFA MH 825. 3 credits. May be repeated for credit. 		

CFA MH 726: Music in the 20th Century
	Topics may include modernism, the replacement of tonality, music of war, opera, symphony, chamber music, sacred music, individual composers' and national styles, cultural context, reception, notation, analysis, and performance of twentieth-century music. Meets with  CFA MH 826.  Permission of instructor. 3 credits. May be repeated for credit. 		

CFA MH 727: Special Topics in Musicology
	Close study of specifically defined areas in the forefront of musicological research. Individual research papers and class research projects as assigned by the instructor. Permission of instructor. 3 cr. May be repeated for credit.(Meets with CFA MU 827)		

CFA MH 731: Medieval Polyphony
	The creation and development of polyphonic music from its uncertain origins in the ninth century through the schools of Compostela, St. Martial, and Notre Dame, to the secular and sacred works of the late-fourteenth-century "mannerists." 3 cr.		

