CFA TH 362: Drafting 4
	Prereq: CFA TH 361 or consent of instructor; A continuation of CFA TH 362. Studio work in advanced hand drafting techniques.  Exercises include completing of drafting package including orthographic projections, true size &amp; shape, section drawings, properties drawings, mechanical perspective drawing, package layout and design. 1.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 363: Scene Design 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 264 or consent of instructor; Intermediate design solutions with an emphasis on conceptual approach; work in a variety of theatre spaces. Students work in collaboration with costume and lighting designers and directors. Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance, opera, television, and film. 3.0 credits.  Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 364: Scene Design 4
	Prereq: CFA TH363 or consent of instructor; Continuation of intermediate design solutions with an emphasis on conceptual approach; work in a variety of theatre spaces. Students work in collaboration with costume and lighting designers and directors. Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance, opera, television, and film. 3.0 credits.  Spring semester.		

CFA TH 365: Scene Painting 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 266 or consent of instructor; Studio class. Painting specific architectural detail; projects include stain glass, perspective and trompe l'oeil techniques; special finishes for furniture and constructed projects. 2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 366: Scene Painting 4
	Prereq: CFA TH 365 or consent of instructor. Studio class. Continuation in painting specific architectural detail; projects include stain glass, perspective and trompe l'oeil techniques; special finishes for furniture and constructed projects. 2.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 367: Properties Research
	This course description is currently under construction. 		

CFA TH 369: Technical Production 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 270 or CFA TH 670 or consent of instructor; Large scale project planning and drafting, using abstract objects and producing them as scenery both on paper and in the shop.  The class also addresses problem solving for scenery on raked stages and complete design for a modular full-stage rake that can be struck, stored and installed easily. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 370: Technical Production 4
	Prereq: CFA TH 369 or consent of instructor; A continuation of CFA TH 369. Large scale project planning and drafting, using abstract objects and producing them as scenery both on paper and in the shop.  The class also addresses problem solving for scenery on raked stages and complete design for a modular full-stage rake that can be struck, stored and installed easily. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 371: Engineering for the Stage 1
	Prereq: CFA TH 270 or consent of instructor; An introduction to the classic engineering study of static and strength of materials, specifically with structures and materials typical to technical production of theater in mind. Students learn mathematical and resource methods for calculating structural performance parameters in individual structural members as they interact in a common structure. Discussion of common building practices provides knowledge critical to departing from standard practice. 1.0 credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 372: Engineering for the Stage 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 370 or consent of instructor; A continuation of CFA TH 370. An introduction to the classic engineering study of static and strength of materials, specifically with structures and materials typical to technical production of theater in mind. Students learn mathematical and resource methods for calculating structural performance parameters in individual structural members as they interact in a common structure. Discussion of common building practices provides knowledge critical to departing from standard practice. 1.0 credit. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 373: Modern Tailor 1
			

CFA TH 374: Modern Tailor 2
			

CFA TH 375: Costume Design 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 276; For the intermediate design student.  Geared toward practical application of design theory. Continued development of script analysis, style, research techniques and rendering skills.  Exercises examine the principles of design as applied to historical costume.  Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance and opera depending on individuals in the class. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 376: Costume Design 4
	Prereq: CFA TH375; Continuation of CFA TH 375. For the intermediate design student.  Geared toward practical application of design theory. Continued development of script analysis, style, research techniques and rendering skills.  Exercises examine the principles of design as applied to historical costume.  Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance and opera depending on individuals in the class. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 377: Costume Rendering 1
	Prereq: Advisor Recommendation or Instructor Consent; Advanced work in figure drawing; specific rendering techniques or costume design. May be repeated for credit. 1.0 credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 378: Costume Rendering 2
	Prereq: Advisor Recommendation or Instructor Consent; Advanced work in figure drawing; specific rendering techniques or costume design.  May be repeated for credit. 1.0 credit. Fall semester.  		

CFA TH 379: Costume Production 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 279; In this course the student will construct a three-piece men's suit of the nineteenth or twentieth century. It is a comprehensive course employing classic tailoring techniques, terminology and fabrics. 3.0 credit. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 380: Costume Production 4
	Prereq: CFA TH 379; A continuation of CFA TH 379. In this course the student will construct a three-piece men's suit of the nineteenth or twentieth century. It is a comprehensive course employing classic tailoring techniques, terminology and fabrics. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 381: Fabric Dyeing 1
	Prereq: CFA TH 182 or consent of instructor; The student learns a variety of crafts associated with fabric painting and dyeing.  Subject matter may include fiber reactive dyeing, distressing and silk screening. Check with instructor for current semester content. 1.0 credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 382: Fabric Dyeing 2
	Prereq: CFA TH182 or consent of instructor; The student learns a variety of crafts associated with fabric painting and dyeing.  Subject matter may include fiber reactive dyeing, distressing and silk screening. Check with instructor for current semester content. 1.0 credit. Spring semester.  		

