CFA TH 112: Voice &amp; Speech 1: Emotional Awareness
	Prereq: CFA TH 111 or consent of instructor; Having begun to free the voice and connect it with one's own words and experience, poetic texts will now be used that make a demand on the range, power, and vitality of the voice and the truthful communication of self will be the touchstone for the truthfulness which the actor can communicate someone other than him or herself. Continuing to free and strengthen the voice and introducing the development of the resonators, breath, power, range, and articulation. Required for Freshmen BFA Performance Core. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 120: Acting &amp; Performance 1
	Acting is behaving believably in imaginary circumstances. This course will explore techniques to hone the imagination through improvisations, play, and imagination. Students will learn to clarify dramatic action, understand given circumstances, and notice sensory perceptions through physical, vocal, and emotional exercises. Students will work with monologues and scenes to develop believable actions in performance. The core to learning acting is generosity, simplicity, specificity, and focus.  Specific approach may vary by instructor, consult course syllabus for most detailed breakdown of class mission.  4.0 credits. Fall &amp; Spring semesters.		

CFA TH 121: Acting 1: Personal Approach to Acting
	Explores individuality through relaxation, imagination and improvisation. Builds pathways to physical and emotional awareness, and clarity of thought. Develops an awareness of inner impulses and how to make them the basis for spontaneous interaction with others. Reading and journal of dreams will lead to the culmination of end-of-semester projects under faculty supervision. Required for Freshmen BFA Performance Core. 2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 122: Acting 1: Intro to Scene Study
	Prereq: CFA TH 121 or consent of instructor; The mission of this class is to focus the students on acting printed script through organic inter-relation of self and environment (character building and sensory work to establish place). We will explore release of individuality through improvisational exercises in relaxation and physical freedom. Observation, research, justification of action, objectives, talking, and listening are introduced as tools for understanding, then rehearsing texts for presentation. Required for Freshmen BFA Performance Core.  3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 125: Acting for Singers
	Acting for Singers		

CFA TH 128: Theatre Ensemble 1: Introduction to Theatre Making
	This course is an ensemble exploration of the making of theatre inspired by the complexities of the world around us. Through in-class exercises, reading assignments, discussion, and assigned creative writing projects, students will strive to interact with the world in new and creative ways these works and musings will be the catalyst for creating a final performance collage of work. The final performance will be conceived, written, directed, designed, and performed by the class. Course is required for BFA Freshmen Core (Performance/Design &amp; Production). 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 130: Movement for Theater 1
	Physical conditioning, improvisations, some dance techniques and styles, concepts of effort/shape, interrelation of body and voice. Open to BU Community. 4.0 credits. Fall only. 		

CFA TH 131: Movement 1: Introduction to Movement for Theatre
	Developing and appreciating an expressive body. The first semester emphasizes connecting to imagery and impulses, risk-taking, centering, alignment, stretching, and strengthening exercises, and taking care of one's body, with an introduction to Viewpoints, a 3-Part Warm-up, and anatomy. Required for Freshmen BFA Performance Core.  2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 132: Movement 1: History and Styles of Dance for Theatre
	Prereq: CFA TH 131; Musicality, expressiveness, and imagery through movement. The work includes researching and experiencing historical styles and collaborations of dance, theatre, music, and visual artists of the 20th century. Required for Freshmen BFA Performance Core.  2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 138: Alexander Technique 1: An Introduction
	Explore in depth the principles of F.M. Alexander's work, including direction, non-doing and faculty sensory perception. Begin to look at habitual patterns. Introduction to how the body is designed to function for maximum flexibility and ease. Required for Freshmen BFA Performance Core.  1.0 credit. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 139: 20th Century Dance History
	An introduction to the people, events and masterworks that shaped the development of dance in the twentieth century. Course includes lectures, viewing videos and films, select readings and discussions. Course does not presuppose a technical knowledge of dance.		

CFA TH 140: Collaborative Theatre Ensemble
	Students work collaboratively and creatively as actors, writers, musicians, directors, etc., to develop a short theatre piece. Students learn the basic skills of actor performance as well as the basic principles of an ensemble theatrical experience. 4.0 credits. 		

CFA TH 147: Stagecraft 1: Introduction to Theatre Practice
	Meets late afternoons, evenings, and/or weekends. Basic training in theatre technology, including scenery, costumes, properties, lighting, and sound. Discussion of basic terminology, shop organization, job descriptions, maintenance procedures, and safety. Specific production assignments as Run Crew, Wardrobe, Front of House, Board Operator or other duties as necessary in the mounting of student or professional productions. Required for Freshmen BFA Performance Core.  1.0 credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 148: Stagecraft 2: Production Assignment
	Prereq: CFA TH 147 or consent of instructor; Open to BFA majors ONLY. Meets late afternoons, evenings, and/or weekends. Specific production assignments as Run Crew, Wardrobe, Front of House, Board Operator or other duties as necessary in the mounting of student or professional productions. Required for Freshmen BFA Performance Core.  1.0 credit. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 149: Stagecraft for Theatre Minors
	Open to Theatre Minors ONLY. Meets late afternoons, evenings, and/or weekends. Specific production assignments as Run Crew, Wardrobe, Front of House, Board Operator, or other duties as necessary in the mounting of student or professional productions. 1.0 credit. Fall &amp; Spring semesters.		

CFA TH 150: Summer Theatre Institute
	The Boston University Summer Theatre Institute is an immersive five-week program focused on theatre-making for serious and highly-motivated high school students. It is designed for those who wish to test their interests and abilities in a professional conservatory training environment. In this program, students develop confidence and technique, acquire insight and expertise, and learn to meet intellectual and artistic challenges in all aspects of the craft (performance, creation, design, and practice). 4.0 credits. Summer Term 2.		

CFA TH 151: Introduction to Design
	Prereq: None; Meets 1 day/week for 2 hours/day. An introduction to the principles of 2D design through graphic studio exercises involving use of varied media in black and white. (Spring semester works with color). Does not presuppose any artistic skills. Permission required. Required for Freshman BFA Design &amp; Production Core.  2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 152: Introduction to Design
	Prereq: CFA TH 153; Meets 1 day/week for 2 hours/day. An introduction to the principles of 2D design through graphic studio exercises involving use of varied media. Work is based on fall semester work in black and white, adding color. Required for Freshman BFA Design &amp; Production Core. 2.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 153: Freshman Core: Preparation for Ensemble
	Prereq: None; Studio class that introduces Design &amp; Production freshman to performance techniques that will be used in Spring semester ensemble class.  Exercises focus on accessing emotion, being present and engaged in a performance. Required for Freshman BFA Design &amp; Production Core.  1.0 credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 154: Freshman Core: Preparation for Major
	Prereq: None; Series of lectures that introduce Design &amp; Production freshman to Design &amp; Production faculty, area professionals and artists in preparation for choosing a major. Required for Freshman BFA Design &amp; Production Core.  1.0 credit. Spring semester.		

