CFA MH 331: Topics in World Music
	No prereq; open to all students. Selected topics concerning non-western music and culture, including colonialism and post-colonialism, orientalism, anthropological perspectives, modernization, transmission, migration, diaspora, and the influence of technology. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 332: Jazz Music
	No prereq; open to all students. A study of issues in, or survey of, jazz from its beginnings to the present, focusing on major performers and recordings, individuality and style, instruments, and form. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 333: Popular Music &amp; Culture
	No prereq; open to all students. Selected topics exploring the relationship between popular music and culture, from American popular song and musical theatre, to worldbeat, blues, R&amp;B, rock, Hip-hop, and techno. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 334: Interdisciplinary Topics in Music History
	No prereq; open to all students. Wide-angled and narrowly-focused topics dealing with music's application to and interaction with other disciplines, including the broader humanities, science, politics, and technology. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 335: Music of Africa
	No prereq; open to all students. A survey of traditional and popular music traditions throughout Sub-Saharan Africa and the diaspora. Emphasis is on music making within its cultural context. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 336: Musical Cultures of the World
	No prereq; open to all students. No prereq; open to all students. A survey of music and musical cultures from around the world, including traditions from Africa, India, Japan, Indonesia, North America, and Latin America. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 341: Masterpieces of Western Music
	Study of selected major works from the Middle Ages to the present day. Works are chosen to illustrate the broad scope of Western musical history. Open to all students except CFA and CAS Music Majors. 		

CFA MH 342: Masterpieces of Opera
	An introduction to the forms and conventions of opera. This class will cover selected works from the Baroque to the present, with excursions to occasional live performances and open rehearsals. Open to all students except CFA and CAS Music Majors. 4 cr.		

CFA MH 343: Beethoven
	An introduction to the life, work, and influence of the composer through representative examples of his symphonies, concertos, sonatas, chamber music, and the opera Fidelio. Open to all students except CFA and CAS Music Majors 4 cr.		

CFA MH 344: Music &amp; Society
	A survey of the relationship between music, culture, and and the society it mirrors, with case studies drawn from Antiquity through contemporary popular music, spanning Western and non-Western traditions 4 cr. 		

CFA MH 351: Music of the Rolling Stones
	This course will provide an in-depth examination of the Rolling Stones and their role within the evolving history of popular culture, with emphasis on understanding their musical styles and influences. Along the way, the relationship between the group and the major trends in rock music will be highlighted. This course is intended for the general university student and neither assumes nor requires previous training in music. 4 cr.		

CFA MH 352: Popular Music: The Beatles
	This course will examine the music of the Beatles in the cultural, social, and musical context of the Sixties. We shall look at the influences that played a part in the formation of their style; the magical interplay of talents among the four musicians; and the special partnership between Lennon and McCartney that led to the creation of some of the most enduring songs of the pop and rock era. This course is intended for the general university student and neither assumes nor requires previous training in music. 3 cr.  		

CFA MH 353: Popular Music: World Beat
	No preqs. This course will explore the distinctive popular music known as "World Beat," including pop music from Africa, Cuba and other parts of the Caribbean, Latin America, and in particular Brazil, Argentina, India, Spain, Portugal, and North America, as well as world beat fusion, film music, and more traditional genres such as Spanish flamenco. Social and cultural influences, and the effects of politics, tourism, modernization, and recording will also guide our investigation. This course is intended for the general university student and neither assumes nor requires previous training in music. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 354: Popular Music: Funk
	This course will follow the trajectory of funk from its roots in rhythm and blues through its classic formulation in the 1970s, and will conclude with a discussion of the urban transformation and revival of funk over the last two decades. We will place funk within its cultural and social milieu, as well as examine the evolving musical characteristics of funk in some detail. This course is intended for the general university student and neither assumes nor requires previous training in music. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 401: Graduate Music History Review 1
	Review of music history and literature from the Middle Ages to 1750. 2 cr.		

CFA MH 402: Graduate Music History Review 2
	Review of music history and literature from the ca. 1750 to the present. 2.0 cr.		

CFA MH 421: Medieval Music
	Prereq: CFA MH 201/202 and 211/212. Special topics in music from the beginnings of chant to 1400, including traditions of chant, early polyphony, secular song, sources, and musical institutions (monastery, convent, cathedral, court, city). For College of Arts and Sciences music majors or permission of instructor, 4 cr.		

CFA MH 422: Renaissance Music
	Prereq: CFA MH 201/211 and 202/212. Special topics in music from ca. 1400-1600, including mass, motet, secular vocal, and instrumental repertories, composers and institutions, music and text, humanism, and the relationship between music and Renaissance culture. For College of Arts and Sciences music majors or permission of instructor, 4 cr.		

CFA MH 423: Baroque Music
	Prereq: CFA MH 201/211 and 202/212. Special topics in music from ca. 1600-1750, including examinations of opera, cantata and oratorio, monody, instrumental genres, and composers, from Monteverdi to J.S. Bach. For College of Arts and Sciences music majors or permission of instructor, 4 cr.		

CFA MH 424: Music in the Classical Period
	Prereq: CFA MH 201/211 and 202/212. Special topics in music from ca. 1750-1820, dealing mainly with symphonic, chamber, and keyboard by Haydn and Mozart through Beethoven. For College of Arts and Sciences music majors or permission of instructor, 4 cr.		

