CFA MU 190: All-Campus Chamber Music
	This course would provide an opportunity for accomplished musicians from the greater Boston University community to develop their playing in a small-ensemble setting in addition to their participation in the larger All-Campus Ensembles. Open to Non-majors.  Majors seeking elective credit may also register with permission. Group placement will be determined based on the results of All-Campus auditions.  Credit hours: 1   Meetings: twelve 1-hour coachings per semester and independently scheduled rehearsals; times TBD depending on the mutual availability of coach and chamber ensemble members 		

CFA MU 191: Marching Band
	The BU Marching Band is a corps style band with a large wind block, drum line, front ensemble (pit), and color guard. The Band performs numerous exhibition field shows all over New  England, including several local and regional parades. Rehearsals are on Tuesday and Thursday evenings from 6:30-9:00pm. (The B1  section is for Drum Line.) 1.0 credit.		

CFA MU 192: Concert Band
	Under the direction of Dr. Jennifer Bill, the Boston University Concert Band is a large concert ensemble comprising approximately 55 members from a multitude of majors throughout the university. The ensemble is open to all students wishing to continue making music throughout their collegiate years. The Concert Band performs a diverse section of the wind band repertoire ranging from traditional works to premieres and recent compositions by leading composers. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 1 cr.		

CFA MU 193: Pep Band
	The BU Pep Band is the powerful driving force behind the spirit and fan ritual at all home men's hockey and men's &amp; women's basketball games. Boasting over one hundred members, this band provides a high-energy way to stay involved in the athletic band program after marching bands. Because the teams are perennial contenders, the band has many opportunities for travel to conference and NCAA tournaments. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 1 cr.		

CFA MU 194: Jazz Ensemble
	Under the direction of Dr. Andrew Goodrich, the Big Band is a standard big band ensemble that performs a wide range of music. Membership is by audition only. The band consists of members from many colleges in the University. The Big Band is the flagship jazz ensemble of the university. The BU Big Band performs regularly on and off-campus. Performances include the Jazz Power Hour in BU Central, Boston University's Biannual JazzFest and annual Jazz Brunch. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 1 cr		

CFA MU 195: Jazz Combo
	The Honors Combo is dedicated to playing small group jazz, consisting mainly of a rhythm section (bass, drums, piano or guitar) and one to four other instruments, depending on balance and ability level. This ensemble is open by audition only. The Honors Combo performs several times throughout the semester. Auditions take place during the first week of classes in the fall. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 1 cr.		

CFA MU 196: Jazz Workshop
	The Jazz Workshop is for those who wish to learn more about the art of playing jazz. This ensemble focuses on improvisation and education in the jazz style. The Jazz Workshop performs one concert per semester. Auditions take place during the first week of classes in the fall. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 1 cr.		

CFA MU 197: All-Campus Orchestra
	The All-Campus Orchestra is a full concert orchestra with auditions open to anyone in the Boston University community. The orchestra meets Tuesday and Thursday evenings from 7:00-9:00 p.m. and performs four times throughout the academic year.  The orchestra is an audition-only ensemble with a limited number of wind and percussion chairs. Under the direction of Mark Miller, the All-Campus Orchestra is a large ensemble devoted to the study and performance of orchestral music. Participation in the ACO gives student musicians the tools, experience and understanding to appreciate music for the rest of their lives, either as discerning listeners or as participants in the vibrant world of amateur music-making. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 1 cr.		

CFA MU 199: Symphonic Chorus
			

CFA MU 795: Master's Thesis
	Ongoing work toward completion of master's thesis. 3 cr. 		

CFA MU 888: Continuing Study CFT (Certified Full Time)
	This is a continuing studies course designed for graduate students who have not yet had their thesis or dissertation proposals approved.  		

CFA MU 995: Dma Dissrtation
	This course description is currently under construction.		

CFA MU 996: DMA Dissertation Continuing Study
	Ongoing work toward completion of the DMA terminal project; dissertation, doctoral composition or comparable approved project. This is for students who ahve completed their first semester of dissertation work and are continuing to work toward completion of the degree. Students must register for MU996 in every semester through graduation. 		

CFA MU 998: DMA Recital Track Continuing Study
	Ongoing work by degree candidates toward completion of the DMA recital track requirements.  During the semesters in which students give a recital, they must register for lessons. All other semesters they should register for MU998. Students must register either for lessons or for MU998 in every semester through graduation.  		

CFA MU 999: DMA Continuing Study for International Students
	Certification of Full Time Status for those in the Doctor of Musical Arts degree program. For International students only, who are continuing their degree requirements and are registered for fewer than 7 credits.		

CFA TH 099: Matinee
	Each semester that a BFA candidate is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Matinee (Performance A1 or Design &amp; Production B1-J1). This is a non-credit course that encompasses a variety of components such as matinee productions, guest artist visits, alumni visits, master classes, make-up classes, and other special events.   For BFA Performance majors, the course blocks off weekly meeting times (Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays from 4-6 pm) and students are required to keep these weekly times free. The course does not necessarily meet on a regular basis, and use of these meeting times is at the discretion of SOT faculty/staff.   Additionally, students are required to complete a Process Paper at the end of each semester, reflecting on the progress and development they experience in that semester. Due at the end of each semester, Process Paper guidelines are outlined in the "current student" section of the SOT website and must not only reflect work experienced within SOT training, but also comment and respond to an experience the student had attending a School of Music and a School of Visual Arts event during that semester.  0.0 credits, Fall &amp; Spring		

CFA TH 100: Matinee
	Each semester that a D&amp;P, BFA, or MFA candidate is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Matinee (CFA TH099 or CFA TH100). This is a non-credit course that encompasses a variety of components such as matinee productions, guest artist visits, alumni visits, master classes, make-up classes, and other special events. Additionally, students are required to complete a paper at the end of each semester commenting on an experience the student had attending a School of Music and a School of Visual Arts event during that semester. 0.0 credits		

CFA TH 101: Introduction to Aesthetics and Dramatic Literature
	An intensive examination of scripts from diverse periods and genres. Emphasis is placed on the development of the analytical and interpretive skills necessary for the creation of insightful theatre. Course is required for BFA Freshmen Core (Performance/Design &amp; Production) as well as Theatre Minors. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 102: Dramatic Literature 1: Greeks to the late 19th c
	A survey of the development of theatre, its plays, trends, and technologies, from the Greeks to the late nineteenth century. Emphasis is on the total theatrical event, what the performance might have been, and how it might have related to its audience. 3.0 credits. Spring semester only. 		

CFA TH 110: Speech Communications
	This course will apply theatre techniques to speaking in public in order to free the speaker's use of: relaxation, presence, focus, breath, articulation, projection, silence, stillness, and gesture.  Students will learn how to connect with an audience, clearly communicate ideas, and tell a story with confidence.  Preparation of readings in prose and poetry. 4.0 credits.		

