CFA TH 565: Painting Master Class
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Independent studies in advanced scenic painting techniques.  Assignments based on individual skills and interest.  1.0 credit.  Fall semester.		

CFA TH 566: Painting Master Class
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Independent studies in advanced scenic painting techniques.  Assignments based on individual skills and interest.  1.0 credit.  Spring semester.		

CFA TH 584: Opera Design: History &amp; Process
	A colloquium discussion with faculty and students of the School of Theatre and the Opera Institute, and staff members of Boston Lyric Opera. Spring Semester. 2 credits. 		

CFA TH 586: Color Interaction
	Spring semester. 2 credits. 		

CFA TH 591: D&amp;P Internship
	Prereq: Approval of advisor and SOT Director; Meets as arranged. Work as an intern in a professional setting.  Positions may be sought by the individual or suggested by advisor.  Internship Proposal Form required prior to approval.  The accepting organization must provide a letter of agreement prior to approval.  An evaluation letter following conclusion of the internship is required.  Personal journal or statement is also required.  Variable credit.  Fall semester.		

CFA TH 592: D&amp;P Internship
	Prereq: Approval of advisor and SOT Director; Meets as arranged. Work as an intern in a professional setting.  Positions may be sought by the individual or suggested by advisor.  Internship Proposal Form required prior to approval.  The accepting organization must provide a letter of agreement prior to approval.  An evaluation letter following conclusion of the internship is required.  Personal journal or statement is also required.  Variable credit. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 594: Theatre Management
	The enormous growth of the regional theatre movement since 1960 has changed American theatre. Course will review the organizational structure and management practice of institutional theatre and the commercial theatre, including issues of governance, the balance between artistic and financial priorities and overviews of fundraising, marketing, contract negotiation, labor relations, and finance. Spring semester. 2 credits. 		

CFA TH 595: D&amp;P Directed Study
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Meets as arranged. Opportunity for the student to engage in concentrated research and/or personal development in specialized area. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credit.  Fall semester.		

CFA TH 596: D&amp;P Directed Study
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Meets as arranged. Opportunity for the student to engage in concentrated research and/or personal development in specialized area. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credit.  Spring semester.		

CFA TH 597: D&amp;P Independent Study
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Meets as arranged. Provides opportunity for the individual student to study in a specific field or gain practical experience in a specific area or theatrical production. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credit.  Fall semester.		

CFA TH 598: D&amp;P Independent Study
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Meets as arranged. Provides opportunity for the individual student to study in a specific field or gain practical experience in a specific area or theatrical production. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credit.  Spring semester.		

CFA TH 601: Directed Study: Dramaturgy
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in dramaturgy. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 602: Directed Study: Advanced Dramatic Literature
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in dramaturgy. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 603: Directed Study: Playwriting
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in playwriting. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 604: Directed Study: Playwriting
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in playwriting. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 605: Directed Study: Drama Criticism
	Directed Study: Drama Criticism		

CFA TH 606: Directed Study: Drama Criticism
	Directed Study: Drama Criticism		

CFA TH 615: Directed Study: Musical Theatre Lab
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in musical theatre. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 616: Directed Study: Musical Theatre Lab
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in musical theatre. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 621: Directed Study: Classical Acting
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in classical acting. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

