CFA MP 146: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Strings (Half-hour)
	14 1/2-hour private instrument lessons provided by CFA graduate string major for students not majoring in string performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior string experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 0.5 cr. 		

CFA MP 155: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Other Instruments (Half-hour)
	14 1-hour private instrument lessons provided by CFA graduate woodwind major for students not majoring in woodwind performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior woodwind experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 156: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Woodwinds (Half-hour)
	14 1/2-hour private instrument lessons provided by CFA graduate woodwind major for students not majoring in woodwind performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior woodwind experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 0.5 cr. 		

CFA MP 165: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Brass (Hour)
	14 1-hour private instrument lessons provided by CFA graduate brass major for students not majoring in brass performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior brass experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 166: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Brass (Half-hour)
	14 1/2-hour private instrument lessons provided by CFA graduate brass major for students not majoring in brass performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior brass experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 0.5 cr. 		

CFA MP 175: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Percussion (Hour)
	14 1-hour private lessons on classical concert percussion provided by CFA graduate percussion major for students not majoring in percussion performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior percussion experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 176: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Percussion (Half-hour)
	14 1/2-hour private lessons on classical concert percussion provided by CFA graduate percussion major for students not majoring in percussion performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior percussion experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 0.5 cr. 		

CFA MP 180: Group Guitar
	Section A, Beginning Guitar, is an introduction to the fundamentals of guitar playing. No previous experience is necessary. By learning music from the Beatles to Bach to the blues, we will cover basic chords, scales, music notation and both pick- and finger-style playing. Students should bring their own guitars. Several are available for rent from the Music Education office(CFA room 240, 617-353-6888).  Section B, Intermediate Guitar, is designed for students who have acquired some basic guitar and reading skills. This section includes work with movable (barre) chord fingerings, movable scale fingerings, improvisation, accompaniment, and improving one's knowledge of the fingerboard. Repertoire includes everything from rock and blues classics to jazz standards.  Section C, Advanced Guitar, is for more experienced guitar students. This section focuses on improving one's playing through mastery of chord and scale fingerings, understanding the music theory behind them, and putting all that information and physical skill to work in the context of improvising and accompanying a selection of jazz standards. Players interested in any style of music can benefit from this skill-building work.  All sections 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 185: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Other Instruments (Hour)
	14 1-hour private lessons provided by CFA graduate performance major for students not majoring in performance on non-traditional instruments for which CFA offers degrees. Class is offered to students with or without prior experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 1 cr.  		

CFA MP 186: MP186: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Other
	Instruments (Half-hour) 14 1/2-hour private lessons provided by CFA graduate performance major for students not majoring in performance on non-traditional instruments for which CFA offers degrees. Class is offered to students with or without prior experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 0.5 cr.  		

CFA MP 211: Keyboard Technq
			

CFA MP 212: Keyboard Skills
			

CFA MP 231: English Diction
	Performance for singers: emphasis on style, interpretation, and perfection of diction. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 232: Italian Diction
	Performance for singers: emphasis on style, interpretation, and perfection of diction. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 233: French Diction
	Performance for singers: emphasis on style, interpretation, and perfection of diction. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 234: German Diction
	Performance for singers: emphasis on style, interpretation, and perfection of diction. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 235: Opera Project 1
	Designed to provide a basic understanding of how to prepare and perform appropriate selections from the operatic repertoire, with a dual focus on stagecraft and musical preparation. Class performance projects include recitative, staged operatic arias and opera scenes. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 236: Opera Project 2
	Continuation of CFA MP235. Designed to provide a basic understanding for undergraduate singers (freshmen and sophomores) of how to prepare and perform appropriate selections from the operatic repertoire, with a dual focus on stagecraft and musical preparation. Class performance projects include recitative, staged operatic arias and opera scenes. Students in the class will be considered for ensemble participation in the mainstage productions. Admission by audition. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 331: Song Literature 1
	The development of the Lied genre will be traced from the 18th through 20th centuries, focusing on the poetry and musical setting. Study and performance of Lieder, including songs of Schubert, Schumann, Brahms, Wolf and Schoenberg. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 332: Song Literature 2
	The development of the mélodie genre will be traced from the 19th through 20th centuries, focusing on the poetry and musical setting, as well as an overview of Russian art song. Study and performance, including works of Berlioz, Fauré, Duparc, Debussy, Rachmaninoff, and Tchaikovsky. 2 cr. 		

