CFA AR 382: AR382 Junior Graphic Design Spring: Audience, Authorship
	Students examine design as cultural practice as they explore their own design sensibilities and interests through a sequence of self-authored projects in preparation for senior year. Projects and discussion focus on how narrow and broad social contexts/environments impact the way in which graphic design lives and functions.		

CFA AR 385: Sophomore Type Fall: Rules of Typography
	In this introductory course for sophomore graphic design majors, students will study the fundamentals of typography, from its history and anatomy to organizational structures, legibility and hierarchy. Legibility and hierarchy will be examined with increasing complexity from the letterform, to the word, sentence, paragraph and page. Students will learn characteristics of major type families, how to create and use a typographic grid and to work with type in a dynamic environment.		

CFA AR 386: Sophomore Type Spring: Hierarchy, Composition
	In the second sequence of sophomore typography, students will learn (1)aspects of working with and refining bodies of text, from letter spacing, word spacing and line spacing, (2) basic ideas associated with connotative typography and visible language and (3) how to create a simple typographic system and apply it to a sequence of pages. Students will develop a sensitivity toward defining and controlling multiple typographic hierarchies. Students will explore dynamic typographic variables like rate, pace and sound to express an abstract concept typographically.		

CFA AR 415: Photography 1
	Designed to assist the student in mastering the basic techniques of black-and-white photography, including negative exposure, film development, and print production. Critical evaluation of photographs, relationship of photography to other visual media, and study of both historical and contemporary precedents. 4.0 credits.		

CFA AR 418: Glassblowing
	This course is designed to provide beginning students with a core understanding of glassblowing, fusing/slumping, flame-working, hot-pour casting, and cold working techniques.  The course is intended for students committed to finding their own voice in any medium of expression in contemporary art through critical thought, technique, perseverance, and experimentation.  Students will be expected to demonstrate potential ideas through sketching and/or sculpture in other mediums.  The course will include lecture and research on ancient through contemporary glass making methods.  Students will have allocated class time in all studio shops as well as 3 hours per week of private practice to complete work and assignments.  There is an $80 lab fee for the class, and transportation via T/car to Diablo Glass is the responsibility of the student.  4cr. 		

CFA AR 425: The Artist and the Book (4 credits Spring term)
	By creating artist's books, students explore developing the series image, written text, and spatial and conceptual aspects. Students may work with collage and drawing, photo-based and traditional print forms, and digital and polymer-based letter press processes to produce books.  Studio work will be augmented with visits to the Houghton Library Rare Book Collection and the Fogg Museum. Open to non-majors. 4 cr, 2nd semester. 		

CFA AR 432: Advanced Drawing
	Prereq: CFA AR 231 232. Life drawing; emphasis on figure structure; further development of drawing skills; work from the nude, draped figure, and objects in various media as points of departure toward a personal expression. 2cr, each semester.		

CFA AR 447: Printmaking 1: Etching &amp; Monotype 4 credits Fall term
	This course offers a comprehensive introduction to the intaglio print media -- traditional and contemporary - including etching, aquatint, photo-processes, monotype, and alternative techniques. Printmaking encompasses drawing, design, mark making, multiples, sequences, and overlays, using various material substrates such as metals and plastics. Students are encouraged to master and adapt intaglio techniques as an expressive means for exploring visual intent for their own imagery. Group and individual critiques; emphasis is on image development and technical knowledge. Projects may span media to build a group of related prints. Presentations on the historical and contemporary print and its culture, visiting artists, museum and studio visits provide context.		

CFA AR 448: Printmaking 1: Lithography and Relief 4 credits  Spring term
	This course introduces methods of plate and stone lithography, multiple block layered color relief printing, and monotype used as a developmental tool. It presents print as the expressive means toward exploring visual intent and subject. The intrinsic nature of print involves drawing, creating multiples, opacities and transparencies, varied material substrates, color layering, and sequences and versions -- all can access ideas.  This course is project-based, and projects may bridge media to build a group of related prints. Presentations on the historical and contemporary print and its culture, museum and studio visits provide context.		

CFA AR 451: Printmaking 2 (Fall, variable credit)
	This course offers advanced professional study in printmaking techniques, for students who wish to focus on the print with intensity, as they refine their personal visual statement through workshop practice, critique and the enhancement of critical thinking. Experimentation is encouraged while students develop technical mastery and independent problem solving through print. In addition to demonstrations and hands-on guidance, the course provides an expanded  technical vocabulary. Combined multiple printing applications and experimental media will be an option as well as the opportunity to print at large scale. Introduction to contemporary artists engaged in print practice and contemporary issues, through presentations, field and museum trips, and visiting artists. Variable credit, one or both semesters.		

CFA AR 452: Printmaking 2 (Spring, variable credit)
	This course offers advanced professional study in printmaking techniques, for students who wish to focus on the print with intensity, as they refine their personal visual statement through workshop practice, critique and the enhancement of critical thinking. Experimentation is encouraged while students develop technical mastery and independent problem solving through print. In addition to demonstrations and hands-on guidance, the course provides an expanded  technical vocabulary. Combined multiple printing applications and experimental media will be an option as well as the opportunity to print at large scale. Introduction to contemporary artists engaged in print practice and contemporary issues, through presentations, field and museum trips, and visiting artists. Variable credit, one or both semesters.		

CFA AR 468: Art Education 3
	This course description is currently under construction.		

CFA AR 470: Ceramics 1
	Introduction to using ceramics as a sculptural medium. Explore traditional and experimental hand-building techniques. Study glaze chemistry. 4.0 credits.		

CFA AR 471: Ceramics 1
			

CFA AR 483: Senior Graphic Design Fall: Collaboration
	Group collaboration and design as an agent for social change are areas that will challenge students to develop their own content, point of view and to learn their audience. Students will work in teams representing a professional studio environment. Students will manage multiple work streams through lead and supportive roles.  Thesis research will complement group activities throughout the fall. Research will begin in fall semester and serve as a launching point for self-directed study during the final semester. 		

CFA AR 484: Senior Graphic Design Spring:  Senior Thesis
	In this culminating semester students will independently develop systems and methodologies for solving real world, pragmatic design problems. Students start by identifying an area of research and discussing its relationship to graphic design. The idea of 'designer as author' will be emphasized through a self-motivated design project that will strengthen individual processes and problem solving capabilities. Upon graduation students are expected to have developed a refined, intelligent, professional-grade body of work.		

CFA AR 487: Junior Type Fall: Denotation, Connotation
	Junior level typography is an advanced examination into the theory and practice of denotative and connotative typography. Students will learn how to design a complex typographic system over a sequence of pages; and how to control complex hierarchal systems as a means of conveying visual language and verbal meaning. Students will gain a deeper understanding of the function of design principles in creating typographic contrast, hierarchy, meaning and expression. Students will address how variables such as rate, pace and sound impact typographic narrative in a time-based context.		

CFA AR 497: Typography 4
	This course description is currently under construction.		

CFA AR 500: Drawing Elect
	This course description is currently under construction.		

CFA AR 502: Branding
	Brand identity is a unique and sustainable symbol that synthesizes big ideas. It works across all media to build awareness and loyalty.  This course will deal with the real world issues and problem-solving for brand identities. Students will develop logos as a point of entry to a brand for a series of assigned hypothetical companies. A creative marketing oriented brief will precede each assignment. Each project will include: applications for stationery; web-site home page look-and-feel; product nomenclature or packaging; and signage (where applicable). Logos include symbols, wordmarks, single letters such as H for Herman Miller, pictorial marks like the Michelin Man and abstract symbols like Chase Manhattan. The creative brief will contain information about the target audience for each assignment. Students must have a good practical knowledge of typography, as it is the key ingredient for this course.  "A good logo should suggest, not explain."    Paul Rand 		

