CFA MH 425: Romantic Music
	Prereq: CFA MH 201/211 and 202/212. Special topics in music from ca. 1820-1900, dealing mainly with orchestral, chamber and piano music, as well as Lieder, opera, program music, and individual or groups of composers. For College of Arts and Sciences music majors or permission of instructor, 4 cr.		

CFA MH 426: Music After 1900
	Prereq: CFA MU 201/211 and 202/212. Special topics in orchestral, chamber, solo, and vocal genres from 1900 to the present covering such issues as atonality, neo-classicism, expressionism, the avant-garde, post-modernism, minimalism, technology, etc., and with individual or groups of composers. For College of Arts and Sciences music majors or permission of instructor, 4 cr.		

CFA MH 427: Selected Topics in Music History
	Prereq: CFA MH 201/211 and 202/212. Special topics in the history of music, covering a variety of approaches, styles, and periods, from Antiquity through the present. For College of Arts and Sciences music majors or permission of instructor, 4 cr.		

CFA MH 428: Opera
	Prereq: CFA MU 201/211 and 202/212. Special topics and surveys in opera history from its beginnings, ca. 1600, to the present, focusing on major works, libretti, productions, and music / text relationships, 3 cr. For College of Arts and Sciences music majors or permission of instructor, 4 cr.		

CFA MH 431: Topics in World Music
	No prereq; open to all students. Selected topics concerning non-western music and culture, including colonialism and post-colonialism, orientalism, anthropological perspectives, modernization, transmission, migration, diaspora, and the influence of technology. 4 cr.		

CFA MH 432: Jazz Music
	No prereq; open to all students. A study of issues in, or survey of, jazz from its beginnings to the present, focusing on major performers and recordings, individuality and style, instruments, and forms. 4 cr. (Meets with MH 332.)		

CFA MH 433: Popular Music &amp; Culture
	No prereq; open to all students. Selected topics exploring the relationship between popular music and culture, from American popular song and musical theatre, to worldbeat, blues, R&amp;B, rock, Hip-hop, and techno.  4 cr.		

CFA MH 434: Interdisciplinary Topics in Music History
	No prereq; open to all students. Wide-angled and narrowly-focused topics dealing with music's application to and interaction with other disciplines, including the broader humanities, science, politics, and technology. 4 cr.		

CFA MH 435: Music of Africa
	No prereq; open to all students. A survey of traditional and popular music traditions throughout Sub-Saharan Africa and the diaspora. Emphasis is on music making within its cultural context. 4 cr. (Meets with MH 335)		

CFA MH 436: Musical Cultures of the World
	No prereq; open to all students. A survey of music and musical cultures from around the world, including traditions from Africa, India, Japan, Indonesia, North America, and Latin America. 4 cr.		

CFA MH 441: Jewish Music
	Jewish music as an expression of Jewish heritage, from ancient Israel to modern America. Topics include sacred music, folk songs, musical influence of host countries, nineteenth-century themes and composers in Diaspora. Not available for credit to CFA and CAS music majors. 4 cr.		

CFA MH 442: The Holocaust &amp; Music
	Introduction to musical compositions created during and after the Holocaust that commemorate the period's historical moments, social issues, and personal experiences.4 cr. Not available for credit to CFA and CAS music majors.		

CFA MH 499: Ind Study Undgr
			

CFA MH 541: Music and Poetry
	An historical survey of the relations between the two arts from the Greeks to the present. Discussions of poetry in many languages; emphasis on English. Chant, song, madrigal, opera, and other forms. Ability to read music is required. [ 4 cr.]		

CFA MH 561: World Music Ensemble
	Learn to perform traditional world music in the context of an ensemble taught by specialists of African, Balinese, Latin American, and many other types of world music.  The specific musical style and type of group will change with each semester. Improve your rhythmic skills; lower performance anxiety. Enrollment is open to all students. No previous musical experience is necessary. variable cr. May be repeated for credit.		

CFA MH 562: Balinese Musens
			

CFA MH 563: World Music and Culture
	Read, discuss, and begin to understand many traditions of World Music through performance and discussion taught in the oral tradition. Enrollment is open to all students, and no previous musical experience is necessary. No prereq.  [Var cr.] 		

CFA MH 611: Music Research Techniques
	Introduction to materials about music history and performance.  Topics include research methods, primary and secondary sources, reading and writing about music, editions and editing, and sound recordings.  2 cr.		

CFA MH 620: Topics in Musical Style
	This course addresses a particular period or focus of compositional activity, covering the work or works of more than one composer and opening a view into a circumscribed but influential musical style. 3 cr. May be repeated for credit.  [ 3 cr.]		

CFA MH 621: History and Literature of the Keyboard 1
	From backgrounds in organ, clavichord, and harpsichord, music of the Baroque period to sonatas and character pieces of Schubert. 3 cr.		

