CFA AR 295: Visual Arts: Painting 1
	Study of the painter's language and modes of expression: color and paint manipulation, illusion and organization of form and space, and surface order. Studio work, lectures, and discussions. Not applicable to the BFA degree. 4.0 credits.		

CFA AR 321: Sculpture Studios
	Problems in clay or plaster. Examination of the compositional and design possibilities in figurative and abstract form as a preparation for completion of a lifesized figure study. Fundamentals of armature building and instruction for casting completed clay projects in plaster.		

CFA AR 322: Sculpture Studios
           			This final studio aims to help the students' natural artistic abilities reach their fullest potential by stressing professional habits, creativity, and standards of workmanship.  The goal of this course is to help students make significant strides toward becoming working sculptors outside the academic environment. Students will develop work through criticism, dialogue, and engagement with art history and contemporary sculpture.  Students will use the sculptural language to communicate their own ideas through a series of individual compositions working towards their final thesis exhibition and a portfolio of their works.  		

CFA AR 325: Sculpture Studios Figure
	Further scaled and life-sized work from the figure. Individual projects done in clay, wax, and plaster with an emphasis on personal imagery. Work in high and low relief. Advanced armature building and plastercasting techniques. 		

CFA AR 326: Sculpture Studios
	This final studio aims to help the students' natural artistic abilities reach their fullest potential by stressing professional habits and standards of workmanship. The goal of this course is to help students make significant strides toward being working sculptors outside the academic environment. Sculpture is one of the visual languages of plastic forms; in this class, we use the human figure as a vehicle to better understand the fundamentals of organic forms, proportion, and balance. Students will use this experience to communicate their own ideas through a series of individual compositions working towards their final thesis exhibition, and later create a portfolio of their works.   		

CFA AR 327: Sculpture Techniques 1
	This course will attempt to provide an understanding of basic mold types, the skills required to make basic molds and a rudimentary knowledge of different casting materials. The course will experiment with different mold types to duplicate a form in a variety of casting materials. Plaster waste molds and plaster piece molds will be made, as well as a basic rubber mold. These molds will be used for casting in different materials, including: hydro-cal, hydro-stone, Design-Cast, Fast-Cast cement and wax. Course will include a field trip to a local bronze art foundry and lost-wax bronze casting will be discussed.		

CFA AR 329: Contemporary Issues Semester 1
	Study of problems of pictorial structure and organization in a variety of stylistic procedures. Emphasis on development of compositions from preparatory sketches and studies. Seminars and lectures.		

CFA AR 331: Contemporary Issues Semester 2
	Advanced study of problems of pictorial structure and organization. Individual projects to be developed in consultation with the instructor. Seminars and lectures.		

CFA AR 332: Snr Ptg Seminar
	This course description is currently under construction.		

CFA AR 337: Welding
	An introduction to the construction of steel sculpture produced through oxy-gas and arc welding(mig and stick). Students work with some forging and machine shop practices.  A strong emphasis on safety and proper equipment use.		

CFA AR 338: Welding
	This course is an introduction to the construction of steel sculpture. While learning all safety procedures in the use of shop tools and equipment, students will produce artworks using oxy-fuel, electrode and MIG welding.  Emphasis is on exploring the expressive potential of sculptural form in steel.  2.0 credits.		

CFA AR 341: Painting Studios
	Painting from still life; the human portrait and figure; or imagination. Emphasis on sound spatial structures, synthesis of drawing and painting, and further mastery of technique. 		

CFA AR 342: Painting Studios
	A continuation of CFA AR341. Painting from still life; the human portrait and figure; or imagination. Emphasis on sound spatial structures, synthesis of drawing and painting, and further mastery of technique. 4.0 credits.		

CFA AR 345: Senior Painting Studios
	Work from figure, memory, landscape, and objects, stressing personal expression and evolving significant forms and symbols. Concentration on individual projects. 		

CFA AR 346: Senior Paint Studios
	A continuation of CFA AR345. Work from figure, memory, landscape, and objects, stressing personal expression and evolving significant forms and symbols. Concentration on individual projects. 6.0 credits. 		

CFA AR 361: Elementary Methods of Art Education (4 credits; fall semester)
	From the kinesthetic experiences of rhythmic movement experienced by very young children to the development of individual symbol systems to develop a personal artistic language, this course provides an introduction to the methodology of teaching art to children in grades pre K-8.  It aims to help students develop a personal philosophy of teaching and to translate evidence and theory into strategies that support children's learning in the visual arts.  Topics of study include the artistic development of children in relation to cognitive, emotional, linguistic, and social growth; approaches to studio pedagogy and general communication skills; and lesson planning that addresses voluntary and mandated national, state, and local district curriculum standards.  Drawing in the Galleries is a pre-practicum Saturday program offered one or two times during the fall by the Department of Art Teacher and Museum Education. Students who are taking this course engage K-8 grade level learners from Boston metropolitan area elementary schools in producing art work that is thematically aligned with current exhibitions in University galleries.  		

CFA AR 362: Secondary Methods of Art Education (4 credits; spring semester)
	This course is designed to acquaint the learner with the role of an art educator in the secondary setting.  Art content and concepts are used to teach the ways in which the design of studio learning experiences can enhance students' artistic, creative, and aesthetic development.  The cognitive, socio-cultural, and physical characteristics of pre-adolescent and adolescent learners that impact sound instructional methodology and planning as perceived by the school, the student(s), and the teacher are considered. 		

CFA AR 365: Art Education Practicum K-8 (2 credits; fall for grads; spring for four-year students)
	This elementary practicum offers an opportunity for art education majors to student teach grade levels Pre-K-9.  The student collaborates with the Head of the Art Teacher and Museum Education program to identify a certified visual arts cooperating teacher in a Boston metropolitan area school where student teaching can be completed during eight consecutive weeks.  A supervising teacher, assigned by the program Head, visits the student teacher to make four or more official visits.  Three visits are for the purpose of formal observations.  The third and final observation also includes an evaluation with comments from all three participants in the process:  the student, the cooperating teacher, and the supervising teacher.  Paperwork is generated that is be filed by the University and sent forward to the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education that documents the fulfillment of requirements that may lead to teacher certification.    The first two weeks of the practicum consist of aiding and observing the cooperating teacher and other teachers in the school.  During the second two weeks of the practicum, the student assumes one-third of the cooperating teacher's full responsibilities.  The third two weeks of the practicum the student teacher assumes two-thirds of the cooperating teacher's full responsibilities.  The student teacher assumes all responsibilities assigned to the cooperating teacher during the final two weeks of the practicum.    300 hours of attendance are required; 150/300 hours the student teacher must be fully responsible for studio teaching. 		

CFA AR 366: Practicum 5-12 (2 credits; fall for graduate students; spring for four-year students)
	This secondary practicum offers an opportunity for art education majors to student teach grade levels 5-12.  The student collaborates with the Head of the Art Teacher and Museum Education program to identify a certified visual arts cooperating teacher in a Boston metropolitan area school where student teaching will be completed during eight consecutive weeks.  A supervising teacher, assigned by the program Head, visits the student teacher to make four or more official visits.  Three visits are for the purpose of formal observations.  The third and final observation also includes an evaluation with comments from all three participants in the process:  the student, the cooperating teacher, and the supervising teacher.  Paperwork is generated that will be filed by the University and sent forward to the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education that documents the fulfillment of requirements that may lead to teacher certification.    The first two weeks of the practicum consist of aiding and observing the cooperating teacher and other teachers in the school.  During the second two weeks of the practicum, the student assumes one-third of the cooperating teacher's full responsibilities.  The third two weeks of the practicum the student teacher assumes two-thirds of the cooperating teacher's full responsibilities.  The student teacher assumes all responsibilities assigned to the cooperating teacher during the final two weeks of the practicum.    300 clock hours are required; 150/300 hours the student teacher must be fully responsible for studio teaching. 		

CFA AR 381: Junior Graphic Design Fall: Audience, Authorship
	Junior graphic design exercises a student's knowledge of graphic design fundamentals--form development and communication strategies--to solve more complex design problems. Variables such as audience, context, authorship and issues relevant to contemporary practice will be investigated and discussed. Context driven platforms for communication will be explored as students consider how to reach both narrow and broad audiences across multiple mediums.		

