CFA MH 851: Aesthetics, Criticism, and Historiography
	Issues in aesthetics, criticism, and historiography particularly relevant  to musicology, such as compositional process and reception, the musical work and recording technology, as well as  sound, musical style, taste, and canon formation.  4 credits.  May be repeated for credit. 		

CFA MH 852: Current Trends in Scholarship
	Exploration of recent developments in musicology, including published work that contributes to existing areas of musical scholarship, criticism and analysis of new repertories, emerging interpretive frameworks, theories, and approaches.  4 credits.  May be repeated for credit. 		

CFA MH 853: Medieval and Renaissance Notation I, II
	Principles of mensural notation used in polyphonic ensemble music from the thirteenth through the sixteenth centuries. Practice in transcribing examples into modern notation. Transcription of lute and keyboard tablatures, and history and principles of earlier notational systems. 		

CFA MH 854: Music and Culture
	Examines music as both artifact and agent of broader cultural developments.  The seminar will focus on specific musical repertories and practices within their relevant historical, social, and political contexts.  4 cr.  May be repeated for credit. 		

CFA MH 860: Research Methods in Ethnomusicology
	Required seminar for graduate students in Ethnomusicology. This course will investigate research methods used in ethnomusicology including field methods, transcription and notation of non-Western music, interview techniques, and technology. Students will critique a wide range of musical ethnographies. This course will prepare graduate students in ethnomusicology to conduct original research, and it will introduce ethnomusicological research techniques to graduate students from various disciplines (including but not limited to musicology, music education and anthropology.) Ethnomusicology graduate students will often take this graduate seminar in their second semester, but it could be taken at any time in their two years of enrollment. [ 4 cr.]		

CFA MH 861: Contemplating Ethnomusicology
	This graduate seminar is required for graduate students in Ethnomusicology. This course will involve in-depth reading and discussion of key areas of scholarship: music and politics, music and gender, music and religion, music and identity, and other useful paradigms. This course will broaden and deepen the intellectual horizons of graduate students in ethnomusicology and other interested graduate students. Ethnomusicology graduate students will often take this graduate seminar in their third semester, but it could also be taken earlier. [ 4 cr.]		

CFA MH 871: Special Topics in Ethnomusicology
	Case study of specifically defined areas in the forefront of ethnomusicological research.  Individual research papers and class research projects as assigned by the instructor.  4 cr.  May be repeated for credit. 		

CFA MH 899: Independent Project/Directed Study
	Specialized, individually tailored and guided work on projects not connected with a thesis, dissertation or other terminal document, but of particular interest to the graduate student.  Variable 1-3 credits.  		

CFA MH 921: Research and Directed Study in Musicology
	Supervision of special projects, theses, and dissertations in the history of music. May be repeated for credit. 3 cr.		

CFA MP 111: Group Piano 1
	An introduction to piano performance. Emphasis on music reading, piano technique, basic keyboard harmonization. Open to all beginning-level piano students. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 112: Group Piano 2
	Undergraduate Prerequisites: CFA MP111 or placement by audition. A continuation of technique building at the piano developed in CFA MU 151. Focus is on developing aural and visual skills that enable students to perform elementary-level piano music. Introduction to sight-reading, music theory. Open to all students. 1 cr.   		

CFA MP 113: Group Piano 3
	Undergraduate Prerequisites: CFA MP111 and MP112 or placement by audition. Focus on functional piano, the playing of simple accompaniments and intermediate-level piano music. Introduction to chording and playing by ear. Intermediate-level sight-reading and basic piano ensemble experience, and basic keyboard pattern and transposition. Open to music majors and Boston University students. 1 cr.  		

CFA MP 115: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Piano (Hour)
	14 1-hour private piano lessons provided by CFA graduate piano major for students not majoring in piano performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior piano experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 116: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Piano (Half-hour)
	14 1/2-hour private piano lessons provided by CFA graduate piano major for students not majoring in piano performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior piano experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 0.5 cr. 		

CFA MP 130: Class Voice
	Beginning fundamentals and concepts of vocal techniques. 1 cr. Both semesters.		

CFA MP 131: Phonetics for Singing 1
	Undergraduate Prerequisites: Voice majors The study of Italian, French, English, and German lyric diction through use of the international phonetic alphabet. Emphasis on mastering the symbols and sounds of the alphabet and the study of its practical application. Approximately one-half term devoted to work in each language: Italian and French. 1 cr.   		

CFA MP 132: Phonetics for Singing 2
	CContinuation of CFA MP131. Approximately one-half term devoted to work in each language: English and German. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 135: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Voice (Hour)
	14 1-hour private voice lessons provided by CFA graduate voice major for students not majoring in vocal performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior vocal experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 1 cr. Review of music history and literature from the ca. 1750 to the present. 2.0 cr.		

CFA MP 136: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Voice (Half-hour)
	14 1/2-hour private voice lessons provided by CFA graduate voice major for students not majoring in vocal performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior vocal experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 0.5 cr. 		

CFA MP 145: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Strings (Hour)
	14 1-hour private instrument lessons provided by CFA graduate string major for students not majoring in string performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior string experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 1 cr. 		

