CFA MT 520: Composers' Forum
	Composers' Forum		

CFA MT 561: Theory Practicum 1
	Practical application of theoretical skills: keyboard realization, score reading, rehearsal techniques, advanced solfège and intonation drills, and analytical problems as related to the needs of the performing musician. Performance problems of contemporary literature. Materials drawn from solo and ensemble music of all periods. Elective course for junior level and above, including graduate students. 2 cr, each semester. 		

CFA MT 562: Theory Practicum 2
	Practical application of theoretical skills: keyboard realization, score reading, rehearsal techniques, advanced solfège and intonation drills, and analytical problems as related to the needs of the performing musician. Performance problems of contemporary literature. Materials drawn from solo and ensemble music of all periods. Elective course for junior level and above, including graduate students. 2 cr.		

CFA MT 600: Analytical Techniques
	Systematic and empirical investigations into formal and compositional procedures of selected masterworks from the tonal repetoire.  Lectures leading to individual analytical projects.		

CFA MT 601: Analytical Techniques 1
	Systematic and empirical investigations into formal and compositional procedures of selected masterworks from the tonal repertoire. Lectures leading to individual analytical projects. Credits not applicable to MusAD in Composition. 3 cr.		

CFA MT 602: Analytical Techniques 2
	Analysis of contemporary music. Investigation into compositional methods and procedures used in twentieth-century music. Lectures leading to individual analytical projects. Credits not applicable to MusAD in Composition. 3 cr.		

CFA MT 621: Graduate Composition
	Prereq: Two years of composition. Original work in advanced problems of musical composition. May be repeated for credit. 3 cr. 		

CFA MT 631: Orchestration 1
	Basic techniques in scoring for chorus, orchestra, band, and ensembles. Ranges and transpositions of voices and instruments; idiomatic writing, score reading, and clef transposition. 3 cr. 		

CFA MT 632: Orchestration 2
	Prereq: CFA MU 703. Contemporary orchestral techniques. Advanced study in scoring for modern orchestras, ensembles, choruses, bands, and combined media. 3.0 credits.		

CFA MT 635: Composing with Electronic Sounds and Computers 1
	This course seeks to give the students the aesthetic and technical knowledge needed to complete individual, creative work using electronic media alone or with acoustic instruments.  The course will make use of computers, recording equipment, digital editing software, and sound analysis software: developing basic skills in synthesis, sampling, digital recording and live performance techniques.  Listening assignments will provide an introduction to existing literature and relevant aspects of acoustic and electronic theory will be discussed.  May not be taken concurrently with CFA MU 412.  2 cr course offered both Fall and Spring semesters.		

CFA MT 636: Composing with Electronic Sounds and Computers 2
	Prereq: CFA MU411 or MU611 or equivalent experience and permission from instructor.  This course seeks to expand to students the aesthetic and technical knowledge in the domains of computer music, sound manipulation and sound recording.  It also seeks to introduce Computer Assisted Composition environments and real-time interaction between electronics and instruments.  2 cr course offered both Fall and Spring semesters.		

CFA MT 637: Composing with Electronic Sounds and Computers 3
	Prereq: CFA MU 412/612 or equivalent experience and permission of instructor. More advanced computer music applications focusing on synthesis, real-time interaction and high-level musical control of processes.  2 cr course offered both Fall and Spring semesters.		

CFA MT 641: Modal Counterpoint
	Analysis and writing of sixteenth-century vocal styles based on the practices of Palestrina, Lassus, and others. 2 cr.		

CFA MT 642: Tonal Counterpoint 2
	The study of the early eighteenth-century styles of J.S. Bach and his contemporaries, with an emphasis on the relationship between theory and practice. Special attention will be paid to composing and analyzing invertible counterpoint, canon, two-part inventions and fugue. This is an undergraduate course, cross-listed with the graduate course MU705. 2.0 credits. 		

CFA MT 645: Contemporary Techniques 1
	Analysis and original application of such techniques as polyharmony, atonality, pandiatonicism, linear counterpoint, multirhythms, and aleatory types. 2 cr, each semester.		

CFA MT 657: Pedagogy of Music Theory 1
	Methods, materials, and sequence for teaching music theory. Texts, course content, new approaches, and inclusion of contemporary techniques in curriculum. 2 cr.		

CFA MT 658: Pedagogy of Music Theory 2
	Methods, materials, and sequence for teaching music theory. Texts, course content, new approaches, and inclusion of contemporary techniques in curriculum. 2 cr.		

CFA MT 665: Schenkrn Analys
			

CFA MT 671: Fugue
	Analysis and writing of examples of fugues in three and four voices based on the practice of J. S. Bach and his contemporaries. 2 cr.		

CFA MT 672: Advanced Tonal Composition
	Advanced compositional projects imitating styles and procedures of various homophonic genres, including variation, rondo, and sonata; problems of continuity in tonal movements. 2 cr.		

