CFA TH 537: Directed Study: Alexander Technique
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in Alexander Technique. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 538: Directed Study: Alexander Technique
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in Alexander Technique. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 540: BU in LA: Internship in Hollywood
	The internship is one of the primary academic and professional pillars of the Los Angeles Certificate Program. Students are introduced to industry environments in their respective fields at sites where they will see the work of industry professionals and participate "in the business." Students are required to intern for a minimum of 20 hours per week, however, they are expected to intern at two companies for up to 40 hours per week. Progress is monitored through student journal entries and a final paper in which students reflect on their education and experience over the semester. 4.0 credits. Course offered through Boston University in Los Angeles "Acting in Hollywood" program.		

CFA TH 541: Internship: Performance
	Prereq: Approval of instructor; Students may arrange credit for off-campus, unpaid internships with established, professional arts organizations. Before applying for internship credit the student should check with their BFA Program Head as well as the faculty advisor for Internship: Performance to determine whether the proposed host organization and internship position qualifies. A minimum of 40 hours of work is expected per unit of credit, and credit is ordinarily capped at 4.0 credits per internship. All off-campus internships are graded Pass/Fail. May be repeated for credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 542: Internship: Performance
	Prereq: Approval of instructor; Students may arrange credit for off-campus, unpaid internships with established, professional arts organizations. Before applying for internship credit the student should check with their BFA Program Head as well as the faculty advisor for Internship: Performance to determine whether the proposed host organization and internship position qualifies. A minimum of 40 hours of work is expected per unit of credit, and credit is ordinarily capped at 4.0 credits per internship. All off-campus internships are graded Pass/Fail. May be repeated for credit. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 543: Internship: London Theatre
	The London internship is an academic course. In addition to performing a role in a British organization related to London theatre scene, students must meet a number of academic requirements so as to successfully complete the internship. During the internship, students have to attend three mandatory tutorial meeting and produce academic work which will account for their final grade. 4.0 credits. Course offered through Boston University London Internship Program.		

CFA TH 544: Internship: London Theatre
	The London internship is an academic course. In addition to performing a role in a British organization related to London theatre scene, students must meet a number of academic requirements so as to successfully complete the internship. During the internship, students have to attend three mandatory tutorial meeting and produce academic work which will account for their final grade. 4.0 credits. Course offered through Boston University London Internship Program.		

CFA TH 545: Directed Study: Performance
	Provides opportunity for individual students to study in a specific field or gain practical experience under the direct supervision of a faculty instructor. Approval of the student's advisor and an established focus of study required prior to registration.  Students must fill out a "Directed Study Proposal Form" with their DS advisor's approval after registration. Credit amount varies, each semester. May be repeated for credit. Variable credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 546: Directed Study: Performance
	Provides opportunity for individual students to study in a specific field or gain practical experience under the direct supervision of a faculty instructor. Approval of the student's advisor and an established focus of study required prior to registration.  Students must fill out a "Directed Study Proposal Form" with their DS advisor's approval after registration. Credit amount varies, each semester. May be repeated for credit. Variable credit. Spring semester		

CFA TH 547: Independent Study
	Provides opportunity for individual students to study in a specific field or gain practical experience in theatrical production or academic investigations of a more independent nature rather than through direct faculty instruction. Approval of the student's advisor and an established focus of study required prior to registration.  Students must fill out a "Directed Study Proposal Form" with their DS advisor's approval after registration. Credit amount varies, each semester. May be repeated for credit. Variable credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 548: Independent Study: Performance
	Provides opportunity for individual students to study in a specific field or gain practical experience in theatrical production or academic investigations of a more independent nature rather than through direct faculty instruction. Approval of the student's advisor and an established focus of study required prior to registration.  Students must fill out a "Directed Study Proposal Form" with their DS advisor's approval after registration. Credit amount varies, each semester. May be repeated for credit. Variable credit. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 553: Colloquium
	Prereq: None; For D&amp;P majors. Meets as arranged. Weekly meeting of all students by major, with their advisor, to discuss past, current and future production needs. May be repeated for credit. 1.0 credit.  Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 554: Colloquium
	Prereq: None; For D&amp;P majors. Meets as arranged. Weekly meeting of all students by major, with their advisor, to discuss past, current and future production needs. May be repeated for credit. 1.0 credit.  Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 555: History of Theatre 1
	Survey of Western theatrical practices, exploring the catalysts of the evolution of theatrical production from Greeks to 19th century. Historical readings, group assignments and PowerPoint presentations are part of the course requirements. 3 cr. Tuition: $TBD/credit		

CFA TH 556: History of Theatre 2
	Prereq: None; Survey of Western theatrical practices; exploring the catalysts of the evolution of theatrical production from 19thcentury through Modernity. Historical readings, group assignments and PowerPoint presentations part of course requirements. 3.0 credits.  Spring semester.		

CFA TH 559: Scene Design Studio Lab
	Prereq: Instructor Consent and registration in Scene Design course; Work centers around projects that directly relate to work being done in the Scene Design Courses. 1.0 credit.  Fall semester.		

CFA TH 560: Scene Design Studio Lab
	Prereq: Instructor Consent and registration in Scene Design course; Work centers around projects that directly relate to work being done in the Scene Design Courses. 1.0 credit.  Spring semester.		

CFA TH 562: Drafting Studio 2
	This course description is currently under construction		

CFA TH 563: Drawing for Designers 1
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Second level of drawing with focus on rendering architecture and decorative elements along with exploring drawing styles 1.0 credit.  Fall semester.		

CFA TH 564: Drawing for Designers 2
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Second level of drawing with focus on rendering architecture and decorative elements along with exploring drawing styles 1.0 credit. Spring semester.		

