CFA AR 587: Information Design
	This course explores ways of graphically structuring information. Students will learn process, organize and ultimately symbolize and visualize complex and quantitative information. Focus is on information graphics that reveal multiple hierarchies of data, through which new relationships are made visible. Representation (determining an appropriate form language for an idea) and narrative structure (main organizing principle) are the frameworks that will be studied in order to create precise, clear, legible and efficient communication. Open to undergraduate and graduate graphic design students. 2 cr. 		

CFA AR 593: Design Lab
	This course description is currently under construction.		

CFA AR 601: Grad Typography
			

CFA AR 621: Site-spec. Art
	This graduate level elective will be interdisciplinary and open to students in all majors, both in the Visual Arts program and all other schools in the university. The course aims to instruct students in the professional practice of making site-specific art commissions for public and private clients. The students will gain professional skills in the development of a site-specific work of art that will require the utilization of a variety of media, an interdisciplinary approach and team work. Students will also learn how to work and negotiate with prospective clients who wish to contract site-specific art for particular settings and architectural environments. Credit amount varies.		

CFA AR 681: Web Design
	This course addresses the principles, problems, and applications of web design. HTML and CSS will be taught, giving the students the ability to control the design and presentation of online information in its most basic form. Emphasis is on content, usability, site architecture, navigation and interactivity.1st and 2nd semester.		

CFA AR 747: Advanced Printmaking (Variable credit)
	This course offers intensive professional study in printmaking techniques to students who wish to focus on the print as they expand their personal visual statement, through workshop practice, critique and the refinement of critical thinking. Students may also add basic techniques to their vocabulary. Experimentation is encouraged while students develop technical skill and independent problem solving through print. In addition to demonstrations and hands-on guidance, the opportunity to combine printing applications and experimental media will be an option, as well as the opportunity to print at large scale. The class will be introduced to contemporary artists engaged in print practice through presentations, field trips to exhibitions and visiting artists.		

CFA AR 765: Practicum K-9 (2 credits; fall for grads; spring for four-year students)
	This elementary practicum offers an opportunity for art education majors to student teach grade levels Pre-K-9.  The student collaborates with the Head of the Art Teacher and Museum Education program to identify a certified visual arts cooperating teacher in a Boston metropolitan area school where student teaching can be completed during eight consecutive weeks.  A supervising teacher, assigned by the program Head, visits the student teacher to make four or more official visits.  Three visits are for the purpose of formal observations.  The third and final observation also includes an evaluation with comments from all three participants in the process:  the student, the cooperating teacher, and the supervising teacher.  Paperwork is generated that is be filed by the University and sent forward to the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education that documents the fulfillment of requirements that may lead to teacher certification.    The first two weeks of the practicum consist of aiding and observing the cooperating teacher and other teachers in the school.  During the second two weeks of the practicum, the student assumes one-third of the cooperating teacher's full responsibilities.  The third two weeks of the practicum the student teacher assumes two-thirds of the cooperating teacher's full responsibilities.  The student teacher assumes all responsibilities assigned to the cooperating teacher during the final two weeks of the practicum.    300 hours of attendance are required; 150/300 hours the student teacher must be fully responsible for studio teaching. 		

CFA AR 766: Practicum 5-12 (2 credits; fall for graduate students; spring for four-year students)
	This secondary practicum offers an opportunity for art education majors to student teach grade levels 5-12.  The student collaborates with the Head of the Art Teacher and Museum Education program to identify a certified visual arts cooperating teacher in a Boston metropolitan area school where student teaching will be completed during eight consecutive weeks.  A supervising teacher, assigned by the program Head, visits the student teacher to make four or more official visits.  Three visits are for the purpose of formal observations.  The third and final observation also includes an evaluation with comments from all three participants in the process:  the student, the cooperating teacher, and the supervising teacher.  Paperwork is generated that will be filed by the University and sent forward to the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education that documents the fulfillment of requirements that may lead to teacher certification.    The first two weeks of the practicum consist of aiding and observing the cooperating teacher and other teachers in the school.  During the second two weeks of the practicum, the student assumes one-third of the cooperating teacher's full responsibilities.  The third two weeks of the practicum the student teacher assumes two-thirds of the cooperating teacher's full responsibilities.  The student teacher assumes all responsibilities assigned to the cooperating teacher during the final two weeks of the practicum.    300 clock hours are required; 150/300 hours the student teacher must be fully responsible for studio teaching. 		

CFA AR 767: Art Ed Clinical
	This course description is currently under construction.		

CFA AR 821: Graduate Sculpture 1
	Concentration on the development of a personal mode of sculptural expression. Students will work on an individual body of work and research materials and their practical application. 		

CFA AR 822: Graduate Sculpture 1
	A continuation of CFA AR821. Concentration on the development of a personal mode of sculptural expression. Students will work on an individual body of work and research materials and their practical application. 		

CFA AR 823: Graduate Sculpture 2
	Further concentration on developing a personal direction in sculpture. Students will work to prepare an individual body of work in preparation for the thesis exhibition at the end of the year.		

CFA AR 824: Graduate Sculpture 2
	A continuation of CFA AR823. Further concentration on developing a personal direction in sculpture. Students will work to prepare an individual body of work in preparation for the thesis exhibition at the end of the year.		

CFA AR 841: Graduate Painting 1
	Intensified professional study; emphasis on an original contemporary statement; picture structure and interpretation of concepts, forms, and symbols in today's art. 3 cr, each semester.		

CFA AR 842: Graduate Painting 1
	A continuation of CFA AR841. Intensified professional study; emphasis on an original contemporary statement; picture structure and interpretation of concepts, forms, and symbols in today's art. 3cr, each semester.		

CFA AR 843: Seminar and Discussion 1
	Planning, execution, and discussion of comprehensive original projects in various media and techniques; contemporary trends in art and their relation to the art of the past; problems of teaching painting. Students submit original work on completion of course. 2 cr, each semester.		

CFA AR 844: Grad Sem&amp;Dis 1
	This course description is currently under construction.		

CFA AR 845: Grad Sem/Disc 2
	This course description is currently under construction.		

CFA AR 846: Painting Seminar and Discussion 2
	Discussion and execution of original projects; various aesthetic problems concerning the contemporary artist. 2 cr, each semester.		

CFA AR 847: Graduate Painting 2
	Continuation of Graduate Painting 1; emphasizes the work to be presented as the student's exhibit thesis. This group of paintings is developed in individual consultation with the graduate faculty and is presented in a major exhibit at the end of the second year of graduate study. 3 cr, each semester.		

