CFA MP 581: Continuo 1
	Keyboard and other continuo players are given note-by-note analysis and coaching of selected continuo realizations, both written and improvised. Non-keyboard players are given tutelage in basic continuo realization appropriate to their level of keyboard skill, so that they may be able to accompany their future students, and also to better appreciate and have more discernment of the continuo player's role in ensembles in which they take part. Additionally, they will play their own instruments (or sing) in the class so that the keyboard players have practice in realizing figured bass accompaniments. For both, a historical overview of the practice of figured bass accompaniment is given together with stylistic analysis and practical musical coaching. 		

CFA MP 582: Continuo 2
	Continuation of CFA MP581.		

CFA MP 585: Baroque String Techniques
	Development of skills, techniques, and common practices for performing Baroque string literature with period instruments. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 590: Advanced Instrumental Conducting
	Development of knowledge and skills in the instrumental field at a professional level; various periods and composers and relationship of different styles to the conductor's art; musical analysis and practice in conducting.		

CFA MP 591: Advanced Choral Conducting
	Development of knowledge and skills in the choral field at a professional level; various periods and composers and relationship of different styles to the conductor's art; musical analysis and practice in conducting. 		

CFA MP 599: Alexander Tech
			

CFA MP 600: Boston University Symphony Orchestra and Chamber Orchestra
	May be repeated for credit. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 602: Boston University Wind Ensembles
	May be repeated for credit. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 603: Boston University Symphonic Chorus
	Required of undergraduate vocal performance majors. May be repeated for credit. 0.5 cr.		

CFA MP 604: Boston University Small Choral Ensembles
	Required of undergraduate vocal performance majors. May be repeated for credit. 0.5 cr.		

CFA MP 605: Opera Workshop
	Undergraduate (juniors and seniors) singers are selected who demonstrate operatic potential, have mastered a beginning level of acting and vocal skill, and who need experience, integration, and refinement. Coursework includes acting, music and dramatic coaching, movement, stage and audition techniques and master classes. The class culminates in performance of opera scenes or one act operas. Students may be eligible for secondary roles when appropriate and in consultation with the student's applied teacher. Students in Opera Workshop will participate in mainstage production ensembles. Admission by audition. 		

CFA MP 606: Opera Theatre
	Designed for graduate singers who demonstrate operatic potential and have mastered an intermediate integration of acting, vocal, and movement skills. Coursework includes acting, music and dramatic coaching of scenes and arias, movement classes, diction, scenes participation audition preparation, and master classes. All students enrolled in Opera Theatre will be considered for casting in principal roles when appropriate and in consultation with the student's applied teacher. All students in Opera Theatre will also participate in the mainstage production ensembles. Other performance opportunities may include scenes programs or one act operas. Admission by audition. 		

CFA MP 607: Musical Organization - New Music Ensemble
	Performance and praxis of contemporary styles from 1900 to the present. Participation in contemporary music concerts and Composers' Forum presentations. May be repeated for credit. Does not fulfill musical organization requirement. 1.0 credit.		

CFA MP 608: Chamber Music
	Study and performance of chamber music in various combinations. Chamber ensembles receive one hour of coaching each week with a member of the faculty. (May be repeated for credit.) 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 609: Baroque Chamber Music
	Study and performance of Baroque chamber music for winds, strings, and continuo. Ensembles receive one hour of coaching each week with a member of the applied music faculty in the Historical Performance Department. (May be repeated for credit.) 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 610: Ensemble for Pianists
	Admission by audition. Four-hand and ensemble work for piano; works using piano with small combinations of instruments. (May be repeated for credit.) 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 611: Piano Literature 1
	Study and performance of keyboard music from the Baroque period through the pre-Classical period. 3 cr. 		

CFA MP 612: Piano Literature 2
	Study and performance of keyboard music of the Classical period. 3 cr. 		

CFA MP 613: Piano Literature 3
	Study and performance of piano music of the Romantic period. 3 cr. 		

CFA MP 614: Piano Literature 4
	Study and performance of keyboard music from the late 19th century to the present. 3 cr. 		

