CFA MP 333: Song Literature 3
	The development of the English, Italian, and Spanish art song will be traced through study and performance. Among composers to be considered: Dowland, Purcell, Britten, Ives, Argento, Rorem, Granados, Turina. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 335: Performance Techniques for the Singing Actor 1
	Undergraduate Prerequisites: Voice Majors. Fundamental stage techniques. Basic stage language, movement, presentation skills, and fundamentals of acting for recital and opera. No audition necessary. Some Opera Workshop participants may be asked to take Performance Techniques as a pre-requisite to casting in scenes. 2 cr.  		

CFA MP 336: Performance Techniques for the Singing Actor 2
	Continuation of CFA MP335. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 381: Introduction to the Organ
	Introduction to the Organ, a companion course to CFA MP382 Introduction to the Harpsichord, will cover organ technique, repertoire, registration, history, and design. Basic techniques of touch, pedaling and coordination, and hymn playing will be addressed, as well as a survey of the literature written for the organ as related to developments in organ design and technology. Visits to local organs on and off campus will be included as well as classes regularly held in Room 426 where there is a seven-stop Noack mechanical studio organ. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 382: Harpischord for Keyboard Majors
	Study and performance of the harpsichord and its literature. Students instructed in the various aspects of harpsichord playing, including technique, registration, basso continuo realization, performance practice, national styles, and the major composers for the instrument. 2.0 credits. 		

CFA MP 390: Intro to Conducting
	This course covers basic skills, including use of each hand, study of musical terminology, transposition, tempi, and dynamics. Students learn simple score reading and receive conducting experience. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 391: Instrumental Conducting 1
	Basic skills--beat patterns, use of each hand, study of musical terminology, transposition, tempi, and dynamics; simple score reading and conducting experience with emphasis on instrumental techniques. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 392: Instrumental Conducting 2
	Basic skills--beat patterns, use of each hand, study of musical terminology, transposition, tempi, and dynamics; simple score reading and conducting experience with emphasis on instrumental techniques. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 393: Choral Conducting
	Application of basic skills in conducting choral literature with attention to developing choral tone and effective enunciation; observation and discussion of rehearsal procedure, choral literature, and performance practice in public schools. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 411: Piano Literature 1
	Study and performance of keyboard music from the Baroque period through the pre-Classical period. 3 cr. 		

CFA MP 412: Piano Literature 2
	Study and performance of keyboard music of the Classical period. 3 cr. 		

CFA MP 413: Piano Literature 3
	Study and performance of piano music of the Romantic period. 3 cr. 		

CFA MP 414: Piano Literature 4
	Study and performance of keyboard music from the late 19th century to the present. 3 cr. 		

CFA MP 415: Piano Pedagogy and Practicum 1
	Teaching methods and materials for use in private and group instruction; literature concerned with leading teachers' approaches to acquiring musical skill and understanding; observation of studio and class teaching; supervised teaching experience. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 416: Piano Pedagogy and Practicum 2
	A continuation of the topics begun in Piano Pedagogy MP415, this course begins with the pedagogical works of Ortmann and Schultz and focuses on teaching techniques for more advanced students. Piano works of major composers are discussed with emphasis on literature selection for different phases of pianistic development. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 440: Orchestral Techniques: String
	For advanced performers on orchestral instruments. Problems for various instruments in standard orchestral literature. Undergraduate students only. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 441: String Literature 1: Solo
	Study and performance of accompanied and unaccompanied solo string literature from the Baroque to the present. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 442: String Literature 2: Solo
	Study and performance of accompanied and unaccompanied solo string literature from the Baroque to the present. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 443: String Literature 3: Chamber
	Study and performance of string chamber music literature from the Baroque to the present. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 444: String Literature 4: Chamber
	Study and performance of string chamber music literature from the Baroque to the present. 2 cr. 		

