CFA TH 455: History of Period Styles 3
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; A survey covering the history of social, political and cultural movements and the expressions of those movements through architecture, interior decoration, furniture and dress in major civilizations. Work involves research projects and presentations.  2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 456: History of Period Styles 4
	Prereq: CFA TH 455 or consent of instructor; A continuation of CFA TH 455. A survey covering the history of social, political and cultural movements and the expressions of those movements through architecture, interior decoration, furniture and dress in major civilizations. Work involves research projects and presentations. 2.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 463: Scene Design 5
	Prereq: CFA TH 364; Advanced design projects developed in conjunction with other designers and directors; emphasis on complex mechanical solutions.  Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance and opera.  3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 464: Scene Design 6
	Prereq: CFA TH 463; Advanced design projects developed in conjunction with other designers and directors; emphasis on complex mechanical solutions.  Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance and opera.  3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 469: Technical Production 5
	Prereq: CFA TH 370; Large scale project planning and drafting using abstract objects and producing them as scenery both on paper and in the shop.  3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 470: Tech Production 6
	Prereq: CFA DR661 or CFA TH469 or consent of instructor. Large scale project planning and drafting, using abstract objects and producing them as scenery both on paper and in the shop. The class also addresses problem solving for scenery on raked stages and complete design for a modular full-stage rake that can be struck, stored, and installed easily. Spring semester. 3 credits. 		

CFA TH 475: Costume Design 5
	Prereq: CFA TH 376; Advanced theoretical and practical design training; project work weighted toward individual student's needs and realistic preparation for a career in costume design.  Readings and projects incorporate multiple theatre genres, ballet, dance and opera depending on individuals in the class.  3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 476: Costume Design 6
	Prereq: CFA TH 475; A continuation of CFA TH 475. Advanced theoretical and practical design training; project work weighted toward individual student's needs and realistic preparation for a career in costume design.  Readings and projects incorporate multiple theatre genres, ballet, dance and opera depending on individuals in the class.  3.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 479: Costume Production 5
	Prereq: CFA TH 380; Continues the study of flat patterning and draping through individual projects. Silhouette, line, and proportion become essential elements in the development of complete muslin reproductions.  The study of the form and function of period underpinnings is stressed.  3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 480: Costume Production 6
	Prereq: CFA TH 479; Continues the study of flat patterning and draping through individual projects. Silhouette, line, and proportion become essential elements in the development of complete muslin reproductions.  The study of the form and function of period underpinnings is stressed.  3.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 481: Millinery 1
	Millinery crafts are learned through various projects on different styles of design. Skills might include: straw, buckram, wire, paper and felt. Materials and tools list will be provided.  1 cr. Tuition: $TBD/credit		

CFA TH 482: Millinery 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 182 or consent of instructor; Millinery crafts are learned through various projects on different styles of design. Skills might include:  straw, buckram, wire, paper and felt. Offered in odd numbered AY. 1.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 483: Lighting Design 5
	Prereq: CFA TH 384; An in-depth look at the functions and qualities of light and how to apply them in complex ways within the lighting design for stage.  Focus will be placed on your continuing development as a theatre artist and on expanding your knowledge of lighting design. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 484: Lighting Design 6
	Prereq: CFA TH 483. An in-depth look at the functions and qualities of light and how to apply them in complex ways within the lighting design for stage.  Focus will be placed on your continuing development as a theatre artist and on expanding your knowledge of lighting design. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.  		

CFA TH 485: Choreography and Design: Experiments in Light and Movement
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; A course intended for lighting designers, actors, directors and dancers to develop theatrical work integrating light and movement. The goal of the course is to provide a workshop environment that fosters the development of new forms of theatrical expression involving light and movement.  Weekly assignments involve light sources, movement and light, conventions involving space, time, flow and hue; improvisations; and experimentation with theatrical ideas, character development and storytelling involving light and movement.  Rehearsal times on Sundays and Monday evenings expected outside of regular class times.  2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 494: SM: prepping to Freelance
	Prereq: CFA TH194 or consent on instructor. Meets periodically as a group in the spring semester. Discussion of freelancing, job searching, networking, and how to support a professional career. Examination of theatres and job possibilities as well as the continuation of personal communication and team leadership styles. Individual research projects based on students' areas of interest in the professional market. Spring semester. 1 credit.  		

CFA TH 497: Production
	Prereq: CFA TH 398; Each semester that a senior Design &amp; Production BFA candidate is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Production.  Meets late afternoons, evenings and/or weekends.  Specific design and shop work in the mounting of student or professional productions. Does not include off-crew design work. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 498: Production
	Prereq: CFA TH 398; Each semester that a senior Design &amp; Production BFA candidate is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Production.  Meets late afternoons, evenings and/or weekends.  Specific design and shop work in the mounting of student or professional productions. Does not include off-crew design work. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 500: Topics in Contemporary Dramatic Literature
	American Family Plays. A striking number of the most-acclaimed plays of the American theatre are plays about families, among them works by O'Neill, Odets, Hellman, Kaufman and Hart, Wilder, Williams, Miller, Hansberry, Albee, Shepard, Guare, A. Wilson, Kushner, Vogel, and Letts.  Students will read and discuss these plays.  Requires two papers and three brief (5-10 minute) oral presentations (one each on an author's life, an author's works, and the critical reception of a play).  4 cr. Tuition: $TBD/credit		

CFA TH 501: Directed Study: Dramatic Literature
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in dramatic literature. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

