CFA TH 502: Directed Study: Dramatic Literature
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in dramatic literature. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 503: BU in LA: Writing for Film/Television
	This course is geared towards writers who want to write for film and television but may not have extensive experience or training in those disciplines. It will emphasize re-enforcement of film fundamentals, developing professional samples, and workshopping of material. Students will attend guest-speaker lectures and will have the opportunity to pitch to one or more industry professionals at the end of the course. 4.0 credits. Course offered through Boston University in Los Angeles "Writer in Hollywood" program.		

CFA TH 504: Adv Playwriting
			

CFA TH 505: Drama Criticism 1
	Prereq: CFA TH 101, CFA TH 102, CFA TH 201, and CFA TH 202 or consent of instructor; Workshop in critical discussion and writing. The course offers readings in theory, practice, and history of criticism from Plato to Zola. Emphasis on problems of judgment, acute observation, and methods of analysis. 2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 506: Drama Criticism 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 505 or consent of instructor; An investigation of the literary theories and dramatic criticism of the twentieth century. The course is designed as an extension of the work of Dramatic Criticism 1, which is a prerequisite. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 508: Contemporary British Theatre
	Provides students with access to contemporary British theater and the critical tools to understand and enjoy theater from the perspectives of the playbooks and the productions themselves. This course surveys and offers explanation of the major developments that have taken place in British theater since 1956. Coursework focuses on students' theater visits, which occur once every week and include both mainstream and fringe theater productions. The plays are discussed prior to attendance, and students are expected to provide a critique of the works they have seen. 4.0 credits. Course offered through Boston University London Internship Program.		

CFA TH 510: African American Drama
	A study of African American and Afro-Caribbean dramatic literature. Focus on the work of August Wilson, Lorraine Hansberry, Aimé Césaire, and Derek Walcott in the context of Western drama. Also offered as CAS AA 510 and CAS EN 588.		

CFA TH 511: Directed Study: Voice and Speech
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in voice and speech. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 512: Directed Study: Voice &amp; Speech
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in voice and speech. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 515: Directed Study: Singing
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in singing. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 516: Directed Study: Singing
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in singing. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 520: BU in LA: Acting in Hollywood
	The course is designed to be an intensive and practical introduction to the world of being an actor in Hollywood, enabling students to learn many of the things and gain the confidence necessary to navigate the complexities of pursuing acting careers in Film and Television. Ongoing evaluation and discussion of the individual actor's 'self-image' and 'self-marketing' (how each person can best present themselves to agents, casting directors, etc.) and acting for the camera, along with weekly focus on other topics of particular interest will form the basis of the class. As part of this class, guest speakers will participate from time to time as coaches and/or to give their take on the business. In addition, students will attend some evening sessions with the COM-track students when guests or topics of particular interest are featured. 4.0 credits. Course offered through Boston University in Los Angeles "Acting in Hollywood" program.		

CFA TH 521: Directed Study: Acting
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in acting. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 522: Directed Study: Acting
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in acting. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 523: Directed Study: Physical Acting
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in physical acting. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit.  Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 524: Directed Study: Physical Acting
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in physical acting. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 527: Directed Study: Theatre Ensemble
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in collaborative theatre making. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 528: Directed Study: Theatre Ensemble
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in collaborative theatre making. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 531: Directed Study: Movement
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in theatrical movement. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 532: Directed Study: Movement
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in theatrical movement. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

