CFA MT 701: Doctoral Theory Proseminar
	Preparation for doctoral qualifying examination in music theory; may be required by a department prior to student's applying to take qualifying examinations. Students may be required to repeat course without credit. 2 cr. 		

CFA MT 741: Tonal Counterpoint
	The study of the early eighteenth-century styles of J.S. Bach and his contemporaries, with an emphasis on the relationship between theory and practice. Special attention will be paid to composing and analyzing invertible counterpoint, canon, two-part inventions and fugue. This is a graduate course, cross-listed with the undergraduate course MU406. 2.0 credits.		

CFA MT 751: Special Topics in Theory and Analysis
	Close study of important topics in music theory and analysis. Individual papers and projects assigned by the instructor. 3 cr.(May be repeated for credit).		

CFA MT 761: Advanced Tonal Analysis
	Prereq: CFA MU 601. Advanced work involving analytic approaches to pitch organization, form, motive, rhythm, etc. with emphasis on nineteenth-century music.3 cr.		

CFA MT 762: Advanced Contemporary Analysis
	In-depth review of analytical techniques and terminology developed for diverse  musical styles from the 20th and 21st centuries. Analysis of representative works from the literature. 3 cr.		

CFA MT 765: Adv Schnk Anlys
			

CFA MT 771: Performance and Analysis
	Review of literature on the relation of analysis to musical performance; practical application of theoretical and analytic concepts to performance decisions; written exercises addressing performance issues. 3 cr.		

CFA MT 781: Jazz and Popular Arranging
	Standard notational methods; chord vocabulary; arrangements of popular melodies in a variety of styles; development of materials from lead sheets; class performance of arrangements.		

CFA MT 861: Seminar in Tonal Theory
	Prereq: CFA MU 601 or equivalent. Critical review of readings on topics of current interest in structure, materials, organization, and aesthetics of tonal music. Individual presentations and seminar papers. 3 cr. 		

CFA MT 862: Seminar in Post-Tonal Theory
	Critical review of readings on topics of current interest in structure, materials, organization, and aesthetics of 20th and 21st century music. Individual presentations and seminar papers. 3 cr. 		

CFA MT 899: Ind Project/Ds
			

CFA MT 921: Research and Directed Study in Theory/Composition
	Prereq: consent of instructor. Supervision of special projects, theses, documents, and dissertations of graduate students in field of theory or composition, or others by permission of instructor. May be repreated for credit. 2 or 3 cr. 		

CFA MU 091: Marching Band
	The BU Marching Band is a corps style band with a large wind block, drum line, front ensemble (pit), and     color guard. The Band performs numerous exhibition field shows all over New England, including several     local and regional parades. Rehearsals are on Tuesday and Thursday evenings from 6:30-9:00pm. (The B1  section is for Drum Line.) 0 credits.		

CFA MU 092: Concert Band
	Under the direction of Dr. Jennifer Bill, the Boston University Concert Band is a large concert ensemble comprising approximately 55 members from a multitude of majors throughout the university. The ensemble is open to all students wishing to continue making music throughout their collegiate years. The Concert Band performs a diverse section of the wind band repertoire ranging from traditional works to premieres and recent compositions by leading composers. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 0 credits.		

CFA MU 093: Pep Band
	The BU Pep Band is the powerful driving force behind the spirit and fan ritual at all home men's hockey and men's &amp; women's basketball games. Boasting over one hundred members, this band provides a high-energy way to stay involved in the athletic band program after marching bands. Because the teams are perennial contenders, the band has many opportunities for travel to conference and NCAA tournaments. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 0 cr.		

CFA MU 094: Jazz Ensemble
	Under the direction of Dr. Andrew Goodrich, the Big Band is a standard big band ensemble that performs a wide range of music. Membership is by audition only. The band consists of members from many colleges in the University. The Big Band is the flagship jazz ensemble of the university. The BU Big Band performs regularly on and off-campus. Performances include the Jazz Power Hour in BU Central, Boston University's Biannual JazzFest and annual Jazz Brunch. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 0 credits.		

CFA MU 095: Jazz Combo
	The Honors Combo is dedicated to playing small group jazz, consisting mainly of a rhythm section (bass, drums, piano or guitar) and one to four other instruments, depending on balance and ability level. This ensemble is open by audition only. The Honors Combo performs several times throughout the semester. Auditions take place during the first week of classes in the fall. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 0 cr.		

CFA MU 096: Jazz Workshop
	The Jazz Workshop is for those who wish to learn more about the art of playing jazz. This ensemble focuses on improvisation and education in the jazz style. The Jazz Workshop performs one concert per semester. Auditions take place during the first week of classes in the fall. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 0 cr.		

CFA MU 097: All Campus Orchestra
	The All-Campus Orchestra is a full concert orchestra with auditions open to anyone in the Boston University community. The orchestra meets Tuesday and Thursday evenings from 7:00-9:00 p.m. and performs four times throughout the academic year.  The orchestra is an audition-only ensemble with a limited number of wind and percussion chairs. Under the direction of Mark Miller, the All-Campus Orchestra is a large ensemble devoted to the study and performance of orchestral music. Participation in the ACO gives student musicians the tools, experience and understanding to appreciate music for the rest of their lives, either as discerning listeners or as participants in the vibrant world of amateur music-making. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 0 cr.		

CFA MU 099: Symphonc Chorus
			

