CFA TH 383: Lighting Design 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 284 or consent of instructor; Investigation of lighting design problems and procedures.  Projects for both theoretical and realized productions.  Practical projects to demonstrate lighting design techniques.  Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.   		

CFA TH 384: Lighting Design 4
	Prereq: CFA TH 383 or consent of instructor. A continuation of CFA TH 383. Investigation of lighting design problems and procedures.  Projects for both theoretical and realized productions.  Practical projects to demonstrate lighting design techniques.  Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 385: Photography 1
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; A general survey of the art and practices of photography.  Focus is especially strong in aspects of: history of artists and images, history of technology, photographic processes and basics of the camera and technology. 1.0 credits. Fall semester.   		

CFA TH 386: Photography 2
	Prereq: Instructor Consent;. A general survey of the art and practices of photography.  Focus is especially strong in aspects of: history of artists and images, history of technology, photographic processes and basics of the camera and technology. 1.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 389: Systems Design 1
	Prereq: CFA TH 162 and CFA TH 190 or consent of instructor; Audio systems, video systems and intercom systems will be examined from input to output in terms of signal flow and interconnection practices and how they are used. Offered in odd numbered years FY. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 390: Systems Dsgn 2
			

CFA TH 393: SM: Types and Styles
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Examining the types of things you can be hired to stage manage.  Examples are opera, dance, staged readings and workshops, musicals and event work.  Also investigates personal communication style, skills specific to each type of work and various union issues.  Guest speakers introduce the students to the local theatre field. Meets weekly for an hour. 1.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 395: Production Management
	Prereq: None; Roles and responsibilities of Production Managing on a professional level, including scheduling, staffing, budgeting, relationships, and time management. Students will get hands-on experience in each of these through the creation of a theoretical theatre. 2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 397: Production
	Prereq: CFA TH 298; Each semester that a junior Design &amp; Production BFA candidate is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Production. Meets late afternoons, evenings and/or weekends. Specific design and shop work in the mounting of student or professional productions. Does not include off-crew design work. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 398: Production
	Prereq: CFA TH397; Each semester that a junior Design &amp; Production BFA candidate is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Production. Meets late afternoons, evenings and/or weekends. Specific design and shop work in the mounting of student or professional productions. Does not include off-crew design work. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 401: Dramaturgical Methods and Investigations: Excavating the Classics
	Prereq: At least one of the following: CFA TH 101, CFA TH 102, CFA TH 201, CFA TH 202 or consent of instructor; What is dramaturgy? How are its methods useful to theatre practitioners, regardless of specialization? Students in this course will learn the basics of best dramaturgical practice through investigations and excavations of classic plays, juxtaposed against current adaptations and reinterpretations. Instruction will focus on: the development of one's personal aesthetic; effective research and its presentation; dramaturgical writing and analysis; the creation of casebooks on specific plays; and devising pathways into the world of the play for one's collaborators. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 402: Contemporary Dramatic Literature
	Prereq: At least one of the following: CFA TH 101, CFA TH 102, CFA TH 201, CFA TH 202 or consent of instructor; This discussion course explores the most current trends in theatre from the United States and United Kingdom, with particular attention paid to the voices of African-American, Asian-American, Disabled, Feminist, Gay, and Lesbian playwrights, as well as to plays that break the standard molds of realism and naturalism. Beginning with 1990's Angels in America and moving forward to the present, the course pairs close reading and analysis with other dramaturgical methods in order to provide students with intellectual depth and practical skill for the professional theatre. Attendance of selected performances at B.U. and in Boston-at-large is required. 3.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 403: Advanced Playwriting
	Prereq: CFA TH 303 or consent of instructor; Students will learn the art of developing an early stage first draft into a production ready final rehearsal draft. Run like an intensive development workshop, this is where the most intensive, and arguably, most satisfying work will begin. Students learn the nuts and bolts of massaging a play: fleshing out characters, streamlining action, refining dialogue and finessing structure. Playwrights will also learn about the expectations and strategies for productive collaborative in-process relationships with actors, directors and dramaturges. This class is required for writers intending to produce original works for BFA Thesis. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 408: Contemporary Theatre Practice
	An introductory forum for theatre students of varying disciplines examining the performance work, methodology, and techniques of contemporary theatre artists, theatre groups, and performance artists. Expands the students' awareness and knowledge of theatre practice internationally. Encourages the investigation of diverse approaches to work in the theatre in our contemporary world. Extensive research and reading. This class is taught as a seminar. 2.0 credits. 		

CFA TH 411: Voice &amp; Speech 4: Thesis Development
	Prereq: TH 311; Continuation in development of vocal instrument, workshops in special topics and individual coaching in support of actor's performance in productions. 2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 412: Voice &amp; Speech 4: Thesis Application
	Prereq: CFA TH411; Continuation in development vocal instrument, workshops in special topics and individual coaching in support of actor's performance in productions. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 421: Acting 4: Thesis Development
	Prereq: CFA TH 321; Experience in the application of techniques to define and fulfill the actor's work in terms of form and content as required by the play and its performance. 2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 422: Acting 4: Professional Lifetime Skills
	Prereq: CFA TH421; For Senior Acting Majors or by instructor's permission. Focus on synthesizing the actor's training into the practical and artistic tools necessary to work creatively and collaboratively in the profession. Includes deepening and integrating skills in auditions, readings, and rehearsal process, as well as panel discussions on the business of theatre. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 423: Advanced Physical Approach to
	Prereq: TH 323; For students who have already participated in advanced physical work previously, this course provides an opportunity for each actor to deepen his/her work through continued exploration of psycho-physical connections. Rigorous physical training, object exploration, vocal proposal experimentation, creation and execution of physical action scores. Application to text and character work and the making of a montage in collaboration with fellow actors. 3 credits. 		

CFA TH 425: Acting: Shakespeare
	Prereq: Consent of instructor; Begins with personalization of the text, learning how to speak from one's own life experience. Explores connection between breath and thought/feeling. Then moves on to intellectual and technical demands, treating text more analytically, focusing on comprehension, inflection, dynamics and rhythm. Text will include sonnets, monologues and scenes. 2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

