CFA MP 445: String Pedagogy and Practicum 1
	Undergraduate Prerequisites: Non-music education majors. Teaching methods and materials for use in private and group instruction; literature concerned with leading teachers' approaches to acquiring musical skills and understanding. 2 cr.  		

CFA MP 446: String Pedagogy and Practicum 2
	Undergraduate Prerequisites: Non-music education majors. Teaching methods and materials for use in private and group instruction; literature concerned with leading teachers' approaches to acquiring musical skills and understanding. 2 cr.  		

CFA MP 447: String Pedagogy and Practicum 3
	Continued exploration of source materials and methods addressed in Pedagogy and Practicum I and II, with additional hands-on teaching experience. 2 cr, each sem. 		

CFA MP 448: Str Ped&amp;Prac 4
			

CFA MP 449: Hrp Ped/Lit/Ens
			

CFA MP 450: Orchestral Techniques: Woodwinds
	For advanced performers on orchestral instruments. Problems for various instruments in standard orchestral literature. Undergraduate students only. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 460: Orchestral Techniques: Brass
	For advanced performers on orchestral instruments. Problems for various instruments in standard orchestral literature. Undergraduate students only. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 465: Woodwind, Brass, and Percussion Pedagogy and Practicum
	Undergraduate Prerequisites: Non-music education majors. Teaching methods and materials for use in private and group instruction; literature concerned with leading teachers' approaches to acquiring musical skills and understanding. 2 cr.  		

CFA MP 470: Orchestral Techniques: Percussion
	For advanced performers on orchestral instruments. Problems for various instruments in standard orchestral literature. Undergraduate students only. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 499: Ind Study Undgr
			

CFA MP 500: Sym/Chmbr Orch
			

CFA MP 502: Wind Ensemble
			

CFA MP 511: Practical Piano 1
	Keyboard harmonization skills, sight-reading, technical drills and accompaniment for simple melodic lines. Designed to promote keyboard facility for graduate-level singers. Other music majors with permission. (Required of vocal performance majors in master's degree program). 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 512: Practical Piano 2
	Continuation of CFA MP511. (Required of vocal performance majors in master's degree program). 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 531: Graduate Diction
	One-semester review course for singers. This course is intended as a quick review of the basics and nuances of Italian, German, French, to be supplemented by in-class discussion and exercises, weekly homework projects, quizzes, and singing in class. Knowledge of the International Phonetic Alphabet is required. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 532: Vocal Coaching and Performance Seminar
	Performance for singers: emphasis on style, interpretation, and perfection of diction. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 533: Performance Skills
	Performance for singers: emphasis on style, interpretation, and perfection of diction. Particular focus for undergraduate voice majors. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 534: Oratorio Literature and Repertoire
	Performance for singers: emphasis on style, interpretation, and perfection of diction. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 560: Lg Brass Ensem
			

CFA MP 563: Trombone Choir
	Students will learn musical and technical ensemble concepts related to rehearsing and performing in a conducted trombone choir.  Music selected will reflect a variety of styles.  Open to graduate and undergraduate students.  1.0 credit.		

