CFA MP 781: Special Topics in Performance Practice 1
	Consideration of major performance issues in the music of Monteverdi, Handel, Bach, et al. Covers topics such as ornamentation, tempo, articulation, tuning and temperament, baroque instruments and their playing techniques, baroque dance, and various national styles of playing. Students perform on their instruments, discuss performance issues, read primary sources and other material about 17th and 18th century performance, compose ornamentation, and listen to and discuss recorded performances. occasional guest lecturers. Required of all historical performance majors. Open to other music graduate students with permission of the instructor. 		

CFA MP 782: Special Topics in Performance Practice 2
	Continuation of CFA MP781.		

CFA MP 791: Choral Repertory and Performance Style 1
	Interpretation of major choral works; literature selected from masses, requiems, and magnificats, representing all historical periods; significant compositions; particular attention to stylistic elements. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 792: Choral Repertory and Performance Style 2
	Continuation of CFA MP791, but with literature selected from cantata, passion, and oratorio. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 891: Choral Repertoire of the Renaissance
	Seminar in repertoire and performance practice of the vocal ensemble music from the late Middle Ages and Renaissance, approximately 1420-1600. Required for all DMA candidates in Choral Conducting. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 892: Choral Repertoire of the Baroque
	Seminar in repertoire and performance practice of choral music from the Baroque and early Classical periods. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 893: Choral Repertoire of the Late Classical and Romantic Periods
	Seminar in repertoire and performance practice of choral music from the late Classical and Romantic periods. Required for DMA candidates in Choral Conducting. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 894: Choral Repertoire of the Twentieth Century
	Seminar in repertoire and performance practice of choral music from the 20th Century. Required for DMA candidates in Choral Conducting. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 899: Ind Project/Ds
			

CFA MP 929: Research, Directed Study, and Performance in Conducting
	Preparation of project in the field of conducting. Credit amount varies.		

CFA MT 101: Music Theory 1
	Basic music vocabulary. Elements of tonal music approached through hearing, writing, analytical work, and keyboard. Species counterpoint. All students must also enroll in Ear-Training and Sight-Singing. 3 cr. 		

CFA MT 102: Music Theory 2
	Understanding of chord grammar through study of voice leading, figured bass, and harmonization of    melodies. Keyboard harmony and coordination exercises. Introduction to the systematic study of form. All    students must also enroll in Ear-Training and Sight-Singing. 3 cr		

CFA MT 105: Elements of Music Theory 1
	Elements of music; properties of tone and rhythm, sight reading from bass and treble clefs; notation of meter and rhythms; construction of scales, triads, and intervals. Ear-training, sight-singing, analysis, and compositional work. Credit not applicable to music major. 4 cr.		

CFA MT 106: Elements of Music Theory 2
	Elementary problems in voice leading and analysis of simpler music from different periods, focusing on the structuring elements of composition. Correlated ear-training, analytical, and compositional work. Credit not applicable to music major. 4 cr.		

CFA MT 111: Ear-Training and Sight-Singing 1
	Sight singing and dictation of diatonic materials in all clefs and using all intervals. Exercises in rhythmic reading, conducting, prepared singing, and intonation. 1 cr.		

CFA MT 112: Ear-Training and Sight-Singing 2
	Undergraduate Prerequisite: CFA MT 111 or placement by exam. Continuation of MT 111. An introduction to chromaticism and modulation within a tonal context. Triplets and compound rhythms. Melodic, harmonic, and rhythmic dictation. 1 cr. 		

CFA MT 121: Basic Composition 1
	Introduction to principles of composition. Instruction in calligraphy and manuscript preparation. Examination of contemporary music devices. Written work modeled on analyses of representative forms. 2 cr. 		

CFA MT 122: Basic Composition 2
	Introduction to principles of composition. Instruction in calligraphy and manuscript preparation. Examination of contemporary music devices. Written work modeled on analyses of representative forms. 2 cr. 		

CFA MT 201: Music Theory 3
	More advanced study of tonal harmony and voice leading. Tonal counterpoint. Formal and compositional idioms of the late Baroque. Keyboard harmony, figured bass, and introduction to score reading. All students must also enroll in Ear-Training and Sight-Singing. 3 cr.		

CFA MT 202: Music Theory 4
	Continued study of tonal and chromatic harmony and voice leading. Composition of small forms. Introduction to instrumentation and scoring. Formal and compositional idioms of the Classical period. Keyboard harmony and score reading. All students must also enroll in Ear-Training and Sight-Singing. 3 cr.		

