CFA MP 671: Percussion Ensemble
	Study and performance of chamber music for combinations of percussion instruments. May be repeated for credit. 2.0 credits.		

CFA MP 681: Introduction to the Organ
	Introduction to the Organ, a companion course to MP682 Introduction to the Harpsichord, will cover organ technique, repertoire, registration, history, and design. Basic techniques of touch, pedaling and coordination, and hymn playing will be addressed, as well as a survey of the literature written for the organ as related to developments in organ design and technology. Visits to local organs on and off campus will be included as well as classes regularly held in Room 426 where there is a seven-stop Noack mechanical studio organ. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 682: Harpischord for Keyboard Majors
	Study and performance of the harpsichord and its literature. Students instructed in the various aspects of harpsichord playing, including technique, registration, basso continuo realization, performance practice, national styles, and the major composers for the instrument. 2.0 credits. 		

CFA MP 685: Organ Seminar
			

CFA MP 690: Orchestral Conducting Seminar
	Study and directed assignments in conducting of significant works, vocal and instrumental, in addition to required attendance at rehearsals of assigned groups. Credit amount varies.		

CFA MP 691: Choral Conducting Seminar: Medieval and Renaissance
	Content includes refinement of conducting skills, study of repertoire, score analysis, and rehearsal techniques.  Literature may include Gregorian chant and Masses, motets, and madrigals from the fourteenth- through seventeenth-centuries.  Students will observe and participate in rehearsals and performances of the School of Music choral ensembles (e.g. Chamber Chorus, Concert Choir) and the Boston University Symphonic Chorus.  Enrollment in these ensembles for credit is discouraged, as participation is expected in order to satisfy laboratory component of Seminar		

CFA MP 692: Choral Conducting Seminar: Baroque and Early Classic
	Content includes refinement of conducting skills, study of repertoire, score analysis, and rehearsal techniques.  Literature may include oratorios, Masses, and smaller choral works from the seventeenth- and eighteenth-centuries.  Students will observe and participate in rehearsals and performances of the School of Music choral ensembles (e.g. Chamber Chorus, Concert Choir) and the Boston University Symphonic Chorus.  Enrollment in these ensembles for credit is discouraged, as participation is expected in order to satisfy laboratory component of Seminar.		

CFA MP 693: Choral Conducting Seminar: Late Classic and Romantic
	Content includes refinement of conducting skills, study of repertoire, score analysis, and rehearsal techniques.  Literature may include oratorios, Masses, and smaller choral works from the eighteenth- and nineteenth-centuries.  Students will observe and participate in rehearsals and performances of the School of Music choral ensembles (e.g. Chamber Chorus, Concert Choir) and the Boston University Symphonic Chorus.  Enrollment in these ensembles for credit is discouraged, as participation is expected in order to satisfy laboratory component of Seminar.		

CFA MP 694: Choral Conducting Seminar: 20th Century and Contemporary
	Content includes refinement of conducting skills, study of repertoire, score analysis, and rehearsal techniques.  Literature may include oratorios, Masses, and smaller choral works from the twentieth- and twenty-first-centuries.  Students will observe and participate in rehearsals and performances of the School of Music choral ensembles (e.g. Chamber Chorus, Concert Choir) and the Boston University Symphonic Chorus.  Enrollment in these ensembles for credit is discouraged, as participation is expected in order to satisfy laboratory component of Seminar.		

CFA MP 695: Phonetics for Choral Conducting
	Provides an opportunity for students to develop and understanding of common pronunciation of English, Italian, German, and French for the performance of choral literature. The first half of the semester will be spent learning the International Phonetic Alphabet through in-class exercises, homework, quizzes, and tests, and in-class performance of choral works in English. The second half will involve learning symbols specific to Italian, German, and French, and conducting choral songs in those languages. Classes will meet for one hour twice a week. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 697: Contemporary Conducting
	Students receive instruction in the preparation and techniques of conducting contemporary music and are assigned conducting projects in the Contemporary Collegium or with other related groups. 1 cr. May be repeated for credit once.		

CFA MP 720: Accompaniment Practicum
	Accompaniment Practicum		

CFA MP 721: Coach for Pno 1
			

CFA MP 722: Coach for Pno 2
			

CFA MP 723: Opera Arias for Pianists 1
	Course for collaborative pianists in the study and performance of standard opera aria repertoire. Required for DMA collaborative piano majors with vocal or vocal/instrumental concentration. Open as elective credit by permission of instructor to music majors having requisite piano skills. The course will meet for two hours each week. Topics will include the study of recitative, operas of Mozart, and the Bel Canto operas of Bellini, Rossini, Donizetti and Verdi. Students will be required to purchase a textbook and opera aria for anthologies. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 724: Opera Arias for Pianists 2
	Opera Arias for Pianists 2 Continuation of CFA MP723. 2 cr.  		

CFA MP 730: Opera Institute
			

CFA MP 731: Special Topics in Song Literature
	Focused study on a specific body of song literature through historical criticism, analysis of poetry, and performance. Topic varies by semester. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 735: Vocal Pedagogy 1
	Introduction to the fundamentals of vocal tract physiology, acoustics, and technique. Open to all graduate students. 		

CFA MP 741: Special Topics in String Literature
	Focused study on a specific body of string chamber music literature through score study, readings and lecture, listening to selected recordings, coached group readings by those registered for the course, and/or possible performances in or out of the class meeting time. Topic varies by semester. Open to String Majors. 1 cr. 		

