SED AP 500: Directed Study
           			Open to undergraduate students only. Prereq: approval of advisor, the faculty member who is to supervise  the study, and department chair. Plans must be submitted in advance of registration on a form obtained  from the department office. Variable cr, either sem.		

SED AP 550: Perspectives on Higher Education
	An introduction to the history and philosophy of higher education in  Europe and America. Focus on the interplay between the goals of the  university and the demands placed on higher education by society. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED AP 551: Issues in Higher Education Administration
	Examines crucial issues facing higher education administration, including curriculum, governance, finance,  and mission. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED AP 553: Student Affairs in Higher Education
	Many valuable university lessons are learned outside of the classroom. Through selected readings, class   discussion, and guest lectures, this course will provide an overview of non-academic learning   opportunities for student fostered by the departments that constitute student affairs divisions. 4cr, 2nd   sem.		

SED AP 600: Diversity and Justice in Education
	How schools, colleges, and other education settings are affected by the growing pluralism of our society;    the tension between respect for diversity and the maintenance of common purpose. Strategies of    integration and separate development and of remediation and enrichment. 4cr, either sem.		

SED AP 630: Education and Religion
	The relationship of government with schools and colleges based on  religious convictions and the efforts of educators to shape and maintain a  distinctive character in such institutions. Issues of educational freedom  and the rights of parents from historical and comparative international  perspectives. Students prepare a paper on a topic selected in  consultation with the instructor. (Also offered as STH TE 845.)		

SED AP 662: Strategic Planning and Implementation
	This course is designed to equip students with the knowledge and skills needed to lead a department,   organization, school and/or school district in planning more effectively for a constantly changing   internal and external environment. Emphasis will be placed on the components and the discipline of   strategic planning and implementation. Primarily through in-class workshops, supplemented by   lectures, presentations, readings, assignments and other activities, students will learn about the entire   strategic planning and implementation process, applying the concepts and skills learned to their own   practice as aspiring or developing leaders, and developing a strategic planning document on projects of   their choice. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED AP 702: Doctoral Colloquium in Educational Leadership and Development
	Provides students with an understanding of the basic purposes and  essential logic of educational inquiry.   Students critically examine and  discuss selected policy studies, research reports, and literature reviews  in   order to understand the evidentiary requirements for making factual  claims. Connections are drawn to   issues of research design. 2cr, 2nd sem.		

SED AP 720: Performance-Based Instructional Leadership
	Utilizing theoretical constructs and practical experiences, this course is designed to prepare aspiring    and developing principals, supervisors and other school leaders to organize, lead and transform schools    and school systems into high performing organizations focused on student achievement. Through    readings, case studies, presentations, independent and group work, and other activities, students will    examine and analyze the qualities, characteristics, behaviors and practices of effective leaders, with an    emphasis on effective instructional leadership. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED AP 750: Educator Evaluation and Supervision
	Students examine alternative perspectives on the evaluation and supervision of educational personnel,   including legal, philosophical, and empirical perspectives. Emphasis in supervision is on effective patterns   of interpersonal communication between subordinate and supervisory personnel. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED AP 751: Conflict Resolution
	Focuses on both conceptual and practical aspects of conflict resolution  within an educational institution. Addresses the general characteristics,  advantages, and disadvantages of negotiation, ombudsman, mediation,  and arbitration processes as they apply to conflicts that arise in an  educational setting; factors influencing the outcome of a conflict resolution  effort; ethical considerations in using conflict resolution processes; and  existing programs for training educational administrators, teachers, and  students in conflict resolution techniques. 		

SED AP 753: Educational Policy
	State and national policies affecting k-12 education in the United States. Debates about  common state   standards, testing, school finance, language of instruction, school autonomy, teacher  quality, and the   rights of parents. 4cr, 1st sem.   		

SED AP 754: Educational Equity and the Law
	Student and teacher rights and equal opportunity in K-12 education. 2cr, 1st sem.		

SED AP 755: Legal Issues in Higher Education
	Using the case method, this course considers issues that arise in the administration of institutions of  higher education and the ethical and legal principles applicable to their resolution. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED AP 757: School Labor Relations and Personnel Management
	Focus on policies and procedures affecting personnel management in  the schools. Topics include: collective bargaining; managing reduction in  force; grievance processing; legal liability of employees and officials; and  equality considerations in recruitment, promotion, and affirmative action. 2cr, 1st sem.		

SED AP 758: School Governance, Finance, and Operations
	Focuses on the economics, politics, and administration of school finance from both theoretical and   practical perspectives. Emphasis is placed on the planning, policy, and procedural aspects of school   funding, resource allocation, and school plant management. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED AP 761: Organizational Analysis
	Students define and document organizational problems, identify positive and negative stakeholders,  analyze possible problem causes using a range of theoretical frameworks, and examine alternative  strategies for resolving or ameliorating the problem. Students should come to the first class with a  specific organizational problem in mind and with sufficient knowledge of the organization to perform  thorough and detailed analyses. Advanced copies of the syllabus are generally available several weeks  in advance. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED AP 771: Advanced Policy Seminar
		Students use appropriate theories and methods to examine critically important policy issues in public and  private education and in corporate training and development. Includes preparation for departmental  comprehensive examination. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED AP 801: Internship
	Part-time unpaid assignment in approved educational or community agency. Var.		

SED AP 802: Practicum/Apprenticeship/Internship: Principals (Pre-K-6)
		Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed prerequisites. Supervised field    placement to demonstrate competencies in the principal's role. The internship requires 300 hours of    supervised field placement. Open only to candidates for Massachusetts licensure as principals who have    passed the School of Education Literacy Test. Var cr, either sem.		

SED AP 803: Practicum/Apprenticeship/Internship: Principals (5-8)
		Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed prerequisites. Supervised field     placement to demonstrate competencies in the principal's role. The internship requires 300 hours of     supervised field placement. Open only to candidates for Massachusetts licensure as principals who have     passed the School of Education Literacy Test. Var cr, either sem.		

SED AP 804: Practicum/Apprenticeship/Internship: Principals (9-12)
		Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed prerequisites. Supervised field    placement to demonstrate competencies in the principal's role. The internship requires 300 hours of    supervised field placement. Open only to candidates for Massachusetts licensure as principals who have    passed the School of Education Literacy Test. Var cr, either sem.		

SED AP 805: Practicum/Apprenticeship/Internship: Superintendent/Assistant Superintendent
		Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed prerequisites. Supervised field  placement to demonstrate competencies in the superintendent/assistant  superintendent role. Required of  and open only to candidates for Massachusetts licensure as  superintendents/assistant superintendents  who have passed the School of Education Literacy Test. Var cr,  1st sem.		

SED AP 900: Independent Study
		Outline of proposed study must be submitted in advance of registration on a form obtained from the  department office. Variable cr.		

SED AP 999: Dissertation Advisement
		Students must obtain approval of their advisors and the faculty member who is to supervise the study.  Variable cr.		

SED BI 504: Seminar: The Student-Teaching Experience--Bilingual (English as a Second Language) and Modern Foreign  Language
	Discusses and analyzes the student-teaching-experience for those enrolled in bilingual, TESOL, and   modern foreign language studies. Theoretical and methodological issues in bilingual and second language   instruction, includes strategies for immersion classrooms.. 2 cr, 2nd sem.		

SED BI 515: Methods in Bilingual Education and English as a Second Language (ESL)
	Planning and implememting effective assessment and instruction in language, literacy, and the content   areas in elementary bilingual and English as a second language classrooms. Presents sheltered and   content-based teaching strategies. Students develop an integrated curricular unit and participate in a field   experience at the elementary level. 4cr, 1sr sem.		

SED BI 535: Literacy Development for Bilingual Students: Instruction and Assessment
	Focus on theory/research/effective instructional practices in literacy instruction and assessment of  bilingual students. Examines the relationships among oral language, reading, writing, and content-area  learning. Examines literacy skill development in first and second languages. 4cr, either sem.		

SED BI 620: Educational Issues in Bilingualism
	Explores the effect of language diversity on the education of school-aged  students. Examines national and international theory, research, policy,  and practice in teaching students who speak languages other than the  national language. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED CE 500: Introduction to Counseling
	Emphasis on understanding the theoretical basis of counseling. Introduction to learning skills involved in  helping relationships. Selected reading in counseling theory and practice are assigned. As part of the  skill-building process, opportunities are provided for in-class practice and demonstrations. Generally  required for 2-year counseling program students, but senior undergraduates with approval may also  register. 4cr, 1st sem. 		

SED CE 630: Applied Positive Psychology
	Focuses on the scientific study of psychological aspects of living a fulfilling and flourishing life. Topics   include happiness, empathy, optimism, friendship, goal setting, achievement, emotion, creativity, humor,   and mindfulness. Students become familiar with theory and research in this relatively new subfield and   critically consider application to their teaching, coaching, leadership, and/or counseling. 4cr, Summer   Term.		

SED CE 635: Counseling Skills and Techniques
	This course acquaints students with the counseling skills essential for working directly with children  and/or adolescents in your pre-practicum setting. Students will complete 100 hours of supervised clinical  work and use the course to develop knowledge and practice with clinical interventions and organizational  dynamics. 3 cr. 1st semester		

SED CE 650: Counseling Skills &amp; Techniques in Sport and Exercise Psychology
	The goal of this course is for the students to become competent in the understanding and application  of the core mental skills of sport psychology and exercise psychology. The core mental skills include  goal setting, visualization, arousal regulation, and self-talk. The student will learn how to use and teach  these skills in a variety of settings. And finally the students will become aware of the boundaries of the  sport psychology consultant and how to refer for clinical issues.The objectives for achieving these goals  will include extending knowledge through reading relevant and appropriate primary and secondary  sources and practice. 4cr, 1st sem.  		

SED CE 705: Lifespan Development
	This course addresses human development from the prenatal period to death. Consideration is given to the  interplay between social, cultural, cognitive, and biological influenced on the healthy development of  children, adolescents and adults. Either Sem, var. cr		

SED CE 710: Child and Adolescent Psychopathology
	This graduate level course will focus on child and adolescent psychopathology from a developmental  framework, with attention to etiology, assessment, and treatment.  Emphasis will be placed on DSM-V  disorders. Case studies will be used to illustrate the text's descriptions and to reflect the influence of  sociocultural factors in symptom manifestation. 3 cr. 2nd sem.		

SED CE 721: Sport &amp; Performance Psychology Practicum
	This is a two-semester sport/performance psychology clinical practicum. Student will participate in  internships that are specifically focused on developing counseling and applied sport/performance  psychology skills. The course will provide training in the development of conceptual and technical  counseling skills and supervision to the students as the strive to become competent sport/performance  psychology consultants. Either Sem, 3 cr		

SED CE 726: Clinical Assessment: Psychological Testing
	This course introduces counseling psychology students to the major assessment techniques in the field:   interviews and psychometric tests. Test construction, reliability and validity will be presented. The major   standardized instruments for measuring intellectual abilities and achievement, personality traits and   functioning,  aptitudes and interests, will be surveyed. 4cr, either sem.		

SED CE 735: Issues in School Counseling
	An examination of issues faced by the developmental school counselor.  Topical areas include the  history, principles, and practices of school  counseling, tenets, and guidelines of developmental  counseling, schools  as institutions, counselor reform, Massachusetts curriculum frameworks,  MCAS  and other forms of school-based appraisal, students with special  needs, school-based prevention and  intervention, legal and ethical  issues, college and career counseling, referral, group counseling in   educational settings, consultation, the deveopment of the school  counselor, and the future of school  counseling. Required for master's-  and CAGS- level school counseling students. Restricted to  matriculated  students or those with permission of instructor. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED CE 737: Counseling: Philosophy, Theory, and Practice
	This class is designed to acquaint prospective counselors with those  theorists whose philosophical  persuasions have most influenced the  practice of preventative and curative counseling in the Unites  States. An  historical overview of diverse theories of psychotherapy and derivative  techniques will be  examined with an emphasis on applications to  diagnosis, and developmental counseling philosophy  and practice.  Topics include the relationships among society, family, and individual in  the definition  and development of the healthy personality and abnormal  intellectual, social, and emotional learning  and development. Required for  all counseling students. Permission of the instructor is required. 4cr,  either sem.		

SED CE 739: Psychology of Vocational Development
	Theories of vocational development and work as a social issue.  Counseling and information are presented as tools to facilitate the  vocational and personal development of diverse populations in a variety of  work settings. Current trends in the world of work. Required for school  counseling students. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED CE 740: Ethics and Professional Responsibilities
	The purpose of this course is to introduce students to the role of ethics in the practice of counseling in  both theoretical and practical terms. The course will address the matters such as how counselors make  ethical decisions; identifying actual ethical dilemmas, as well as articulating the ethical principles  underlying  particular conflicts; identifying the relevant ethics code; and how best to determine a course of  action. 3  cr. 1st semester		

SED CE 741: Cross-Cultural Perspectives
	An historical, philosophical, and clinical examination of subcultural considerations in counseling  psychology professional practice and  inquiry. Required for all school and community counseling students.  4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED CE 746: Clinical Practice
	Orientation to diagnosis, counseling procedures, policies, and  consultation and the professional ethics  of the field. Approved counseling students are assigned to a  2-semester field placement, where much  of their learning is based.  Students typically have the opportunity to work with clients on an individual   and group basis, under dual supervision. Six hundred total hours of field experience are required by the   school and community counseling programs; 400 total hours are required by the sport psychology   program. The practicum must be undertaken in consecutive fall and spring semesters of the same   academic year. Required for approved counseling interns. Registration restricted to matriculated   master's and CAGS students in counseling. 4cr, both sem. 		

SED CE 820: Comprehensive Project
	The Comprehensive Project is a requirement for all School or Community Track Counseling students, to be  completed in their final semester of study. Under the direction of their advisor, students will develop and  execute a research project, complete a comprehensive literature review, or develop and initiate an  intervention, program, or curriculum. 3cr, 1st sem.		

SED CE 826: Intellectual and Behavioral Assessment (Child)
	An applied/practical review of various forms of clinical child/family assessments including: structured and  unstructured clinical interviewing; cognitive and achievement testing; behavioral and observational  techniques; and visual-motor tasks; and assessments specifically designed to target symptoms of  particular psychological disorders. 2cr, Alt. years		

SED CE 840: Family Systems and Family Therapy
	Introductory course that includes comprehensive overview of the field.  Covers the family in historical and sociological perspectives, family  structure and process, schools of family therapy, and issues beyond  conjoint family therapy. Readings, lectures, discussions, and  demonstrations, with audiovisual materials. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED CE 846: Clinical Practice
		Open only to matriculated counseling student with permission of instructor.  Minimum 600 hours of clinical experience is required for current  professional licensure in Massachusetts. Supervised field experience in  schools, guidance clinics, or community agencies. Work with a caseload  under supervision; increasing responsibility for counseling, testing,  placement, and follow-up of counselees. Conference time arranged.  Variable cr, either sem.		

SED CE 847: Theories of Group Counseling
	A conceptual and experiential introduction to group dynamics. Participation in ongoing training group  while studying the dynamics of group development. Covers group counseling approaches and models,  issues of small group leadership, and styles of leadership. Treatment of group counseling goals,  composition, phases, and research. 4cr, 2nd sem, Summer Term.		

SED CE 853: Proseminar on Counseling Health Psychology
	Critical reviews of contemporary counseling psychology research topics and methods in the field of health  psychology. Issues of equality and social justice, and multiculturalism will be explored in relation to health  and wellness promotion and outcomes. 2cr, either sem.		

SED CE 856: Seminar: Counseling Psychology
	Introduction to professional psychology, its history and standards. Current status and directions in  counseling psychology. Ethical principles and behavior. 1cr, either sem.		

SED CE 946: Advanced Practicum
		Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed  prerequisites. Supervised field experience with students assuming major  responsibility for counseling, testing, placement, and follow-up of clients. 3-4cr, either sem.		

SED CE 948: Supervision in Counseling
	Examination of supervision of counseling in theory, process, and practice. Assumption of direct  supervisory responsibility. Permission of the instructor required. 2-4cr, either sem.		

SED CH 300: Methods of Instruction: Elementary 1-6
	Develops competency in reading and language arts, history and social studies education, science  education; general teaching strategies; basic elements of curriculum design; institutional policies and  practices of elementary education. Develops competency in providing effective instruction across the  curriculum to culturally and linguistically diverse learners.  Includes application of these competencies in  field settings.  Stamped approval and a qualifying score on the Boston University School of Education  Literacy Test are required. 10cr, either sem.		

SED CH 515: Curriculum Methods, 1-6
		Examines theories of and develops specific competencies in reading and language arts, social studies  education, and science education; general teaching strategies; basic elements of curriculum design; and  institutional policies and practices of elementary education. Application of these competencies in field  settings. 10cr, 1st sem.		

SED CH 553: Erly Chld St/Tc
			

SED CH 555: Student-Teaching Practicum: Elementary 1-6
	Required of all students seeking licensure as elementary teachers.  Open only to degree candidates who  have completed prerequisites.  Supervised student teaching in a classtroom for grades 1-6.  Includes  curriculum development, methods of instruction, and evaluation of the learner. 10cr.		

SED CH 655: Student-Teaching Practicum: Elementary 1-6
		Supervised student-teaching in a classroom for grades 1-6. Includes curriculum development,  direct  instruction, and evaluation of the learner. Open only to matriculated graduate students who  have  completed prerequisites and have passed the School of Education Literacy Test.  Implementation of  educational learning standards of the Massachusetts Curriculum Frameworks. 8cr,  2nd sem.		

SED CL 520: Methods of Teaching Latin and Classical Studies, 5-12
	Reviews traditional and recent curriculum materials in Latin and classics  education at the middle and senior high school levels. Analyzes curricular  goals for grades 5-12. Develops new instructional materials and  classroom techniques for classics teachers. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED CL 540: Student-Teaching Practicum: Latin and Classical Studies, 5-12
		Student-teaching under the joint supervision of a cooperating practitioner  and a University supervisor. Minimum 300 hours required for initial  licensure, 8 cr; for those also enrolling in SED CL 700, minimum of 150  hours required. Open only to matriculated graduate students who have  completed prerequisites. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED CT 375: Preprac Sec Sch
			

SED CT 500: Directed Study
	Student initiated directed study to be completed with faculty member. var cr. either sem.		

SED CT 534: A Practical Approach to Classroom Management
	CT534 is designed to support middle and secondary teachers in developing a practical, effective and  low-stress approach to classroom management. The course focuses on a classroom management  system with four components: classroom structure, limit-setting, responsibility training and back-up  systems. Through course readings, reflective writing, class discussion and simulations, participants will  develop effective classroom management practices, break current "high cost" and ineffective strategies,  and establish a proactive, positive classroom setting that maximizes time on learning and minimizes  classroom disruptions.  2cr.  1st sem.		

SED CT 556: Classroom Assessment
	Emphasizes principles and procedures of assessment that are of primary importance to educational  practitioners. Includes diagnostic tests, construction of classroom tests, observation techniques, and  performance measures; norm- and criterion-referenced assessment; uses of standardized tests, current  issues and controversies. 4cr, either sem.		

SED CT 575: General Methods of Instruction, 5-12
	Development of teaching skills and classroom strategies common to a variety of teaching matters.   Includes instructional planning, integrating subject matter with learner's age level and educational   environment. Analysis of best practices across all academic areas, learning theories, evaluation, and   specific teaching techniques; 4cr, either sem.		

SED CT 703: Mentored Field Experience
	Open to matriculated students in Curriculum &amp; Teaching seeking professional licensure in a field and at  the level in which they hold a valid initial license. A minimum of 60 hours of mentored experience beyond  the induction year. Seminar and field consultation with University staff. 2cr.		

SED CT 750: Basic Principles for Curriculum and Teaching
	Analysis of important philosophers (e.g., Plato, Aristotle, Dewey, Whitehead) for insights into principles of  curriculum design and classroom teaching. Focuses on accurate formulation of current and classic  educational problems. Seminar format for doctoral students only. Required for departmental EdD students.  4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED CT 770: Seminar on Teaching
	In-depth study of the philosophy, sociology, the practice of teaching. Although most of the readings   related are pre-K-12 schooling, students interested in teaching in  other settings are welcome. Not a  course  in beginning methods of instruction. 4cr, alternating fall semesters.		

SED CT 799: Master's Thesis in Curriculum and Teaching
	Students seeking to complete a master's thesis must present a proposal and secure approval of the  department chairman, one faculty member to direct the study, and one other faculty member. 4cr, either  sem.		

SED CT 801: Practicum/Practicum Equivalent: Supervisor/Director
		Supervised field placement for 300 hours for one semester to demonstrate competencies in the   supervisor/director role. Sections indicate specialties that are supervised by practitioners within that  area.  Open only to candidates for Massachusetts licensure as supervisors/directors and to matriculated   graduate students who have completed prerequisites. 4cr, either sem.		

SED CT 802: Field Experience in Curriculum and Teaching
		Supervised field experience for students holding professional appointments. Must meet field of knowledge  requirements and professional preparation that is equivalent to licensure sequence. Open only to  matriculated graduate students who have completed prerequisites. Consent of department chair required.  8cr, either sem.		

SED CT 900: Independent Study
	See SED AP 900 for description.		

SED CT 999: Dissertation Advisement
	See SED AP 999 for description.		

SED DC 900: Independent Study
	See SED AP 900 for description.		

SED DE 500: Introduction to the Deaf-World
	The purpose of this course is to provide a general introduction to the lives, history, and culture of  American Deaf people who use American Sign Language (ASL) as their vernacular language. The role of  schools in the formation of the community and maintenance of ASL will be examined.4 cr, 1st sem.		

SED DE 551: Deaf Literature and ASL Folklore
	Representative fiction, nonfiction, poetry, and drama depicted in readings and videotapes related to  everyday lives of Deaf people. Develops insight and appreciation of Deaf literature and ASL folklore and  their implications for education.  (Offered alternate years.) 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED DE 552: Seminar: Selected Topics in Deaf Studies
	Topics pertinent to current cultural and educational issues concerning Deaf adults and children. Children's  literature, development of services for and by the Deaf (locally, nationally, internationally); the  professions: law, medicine, and education, and their effects on society's view of the Deaf; aging and the  Deaf. In-depth discussion and contact with professionals in these areas.  (Offered alternate years.) 4cr, 1st  sem.		

SED DE 554: Field Experience: Deaf Studies
           			Students work in an agency providing services to Deaf people for a minimum of one day per week.  Supervision maintained in cooperation with the staff of the Deaf Studies Program and agency personnel.  Specific placement depends on students' interests in particular setting or area. Variable cr, either sem.		

SED DE 555: Literacy skills in Deaf children
	Current instructional approaches and strategies for developing literacy skills in Deaf children will be  examined. Expanded definitions of literacy will be explored and relevant research will be examined.  Finally, a comprehensive discussion of designing instruction that aligns with the MA Curriculum  Frameworks will be included. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED DE 570: American Sign Language I
	Introductory course that provides non-native signers an opportunity to study American Sign Language as  a foreign/second language. Emphasizes developing receptive skills. An introduction to the Deaf culture is  presented  through instruction and activities. 4cr, either sem, Summer I.		

SED DE 571: American Sign Language II
		Continuation of SED DE 570.  Extensive information on Deaf culture is presented through conversation.  4cr, either sem, Summer II.		

SED DE 572: Psychology and the Deaf
	Surveys historical, current philosophical, and future directions in educating Deaf children. Includes the  study of concepts and research specifically related to the psychological functioning of Deaf children and  adults. 4cr, 1st, sem.		

SED DE 573: Expressive and Receptive Vocal Processes
	Study of the vocal processes necessary for the production and reception of speech. Students gain  foundational knowledge and practical methodology in teaching speech to Deaf children. Review of  medical, speech, and hearing research related to Deaf and hard-of-hearing children. Covers interpreting  audiograms and the function and maintenance of hearing aids. 2cr, 1st sem.		

SED DE 574: Prepracticum: Initial Strategies
		Field-based course emphasizing a one-to-one or tutorial approach (therapeutic) to implement strategies  for enhancing the expressive/receptive communication skills of Deaf children. Allows implementation of  coursework experiences. Includes 75 hours of field experience. Variable cr, either sem.		

SED DE 575: Language and the Deaf Child
		First part of a two-semester sequence applying current linguistic principles to classroom instruction and  language assessment for Deaf children. Provides exposure to current language assessment instruments  and bilingual approaches to educating Deaf children in the classroom. (ASL/English). 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED DE 576: Advanced Language and the Deaf Child
		Emphasis on the application of practical methodology based on current theoretical models developed first  semester. Focuses on language assessment and suggested strategies for instructing Deaf children.  (ASL/English). 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED DE 577: Instructional Strategies and the Deaf Child
	Advanced course designed to provide students with strategies for adapting previously studied curriculum  design, innovation, construction, and evaluation procedures. Students adapt and develop materials for  teaching reading, mathematics, and other content areas for preschool and elementary-age Deaf children  with respect to the Massachusetts Curriculum Frameworks. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED DE 590: American Sign Language III
		Intermediate course designed for students who have completed a minimum of ASL I and ASL II. Offers a  more in-depth discussion of the principles of American Sign Language. Emphasizes receptive and  expressive skills.  Presents further exposure to more sophisticated dialogue. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED DE 591: American Sign Language IV
		In-depth discussion of principles of American Sign Language (ASL). Emphasizes expressive skills. Provides  exposure to discourse processes in ASL. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED DE 592: American Sign Language V: Academic Language
	Open to teachers and others who have completed two years of ASL or are considered advanced in ASL.   Focus is on learning how to translate educational concepts commonly found in content classes such as   history, the sciences, mathematics, and literature. How to find common signs for historical figures,   creating signs for concepts according to ASL principles, etc. 2cr, 2nd sem.		

SED DE 672: American Sign Language Structure
		Structural linguistic study of specific aspects of phonology, morphology, syntax, and lexicology in ASL.  Concepts of language variation, dialect, creolization, and bilingualism. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED DE 678: Practicum/Practicum Equivalent: Student-Teaching
		Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed prerequisites. Full-time 16-week  component. Students participate in classroom  instruction in either a residential or a day school/day class program  (totaling 300 hours). Students are placed with master teachers in a  self-contained, resource room, and/or itinerant settings. Variable cr, either sem.		

SED DE 690: Seminar: Practicum
	This seminar is designed to provide opportunities to discuss topics relevant to student teaching with Deaf   Children. Although we will address a number of areas our primary focus will be on (1) the role of ASL in   content areas in addition to (2) the use of effective teaching strategies. (must be enrolled in DE 678).  Variable cr, either sem.		

SED DE 691: Advanced Seminar: Learning and the Deaf
	The major aim of the seminar is to examine the current research on a topic pertinent to learning in Deaf   children. The goal is to develop a more in depth understanding of research in learning and the Deaf.    Research articles will be reviewed and topics will be selected for discussion. 2cr, either sem.		

SED DE 693: American Sign Language 6
	This is an advanced level course. Students will be trained to use academic ASL in the bilingual teaching of   content areas (English, Language Arts, History, Mathematics, Science) paying special attention to concepts   vocabulary and terminology that commonly appear in the content areas. Students will be expected to   produce ASL based resources for various content areas. 4cr, either sem.		

SED DS 502: Adolescent Development
	An overview of diverse developmental theories of preadolescence and adolescence, including physical,    cognitive, sociomoral, personal, and identity development. Examines how education may promote these    broad, interrelated human competencies.  Social institutions that promote or inhibit the growth and    learning of adolescents- particularly in middle and secondary schools and within the family- are    studied. Relies heavily on general reading with student- and faculty-led discussions. Requires an    analytical paper or applied project. 2cr, either sem.		

SED DS 504: Adolescent Development
	This course is an overview of diverse development theories of preadolescence, adolescence, and young  adult development.  Cognitive, sociomoral, personal, and identity development are examined as well as  physical, motor, and fitness development. The course relies heavily on general reading with student - and  faculty- led discussions.		

SED DS 600: Culture, Ethnicity and Race: A developmental approach
	This graduate-level course is for students interested in human development and counseling. We consider  cultural and racial-ethic differences in development and how these differences translate into counseling  practices. We consider several topics including: communication, child-rearing, cognitive development, and  schooling. 4 cr. either sem. and Sum.		

SED DS 700: Advanced Seminar in Sport and Exercise Psychology
	Emphasis on theory, research, and applied aspects of contemporary sport and exercise psychology.  Students develop a research project that involves conceptualizing a problem statement, designing a study,  and collecting and analyzing data. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED EC 206: Working with At-Risk Preschoolers
	This course is designed to provide information about successful  interventions in preschool classrooms.  The course also provides  information about the overall context of the achievement gap and  related  issues.  2cr, 2nd sem.		

SED EC 305: Child Development and Early Childhood Education
SED EC 350: Introduction to Early Childhood Education
	Overview of the historical and philosophical foundations of early childhood  education, Pre-K-2. Study of selected programs and curriculum models in  a variety of settings. 2cr, either sem.		

SED EC 405: Preschool Curriculum and Fieldwork
           			Required in initial licensure program for majors. Includes supervised teaching of 3-to-5-year-olds.  Emphasis on curriculum development, instructional planning, classroom management,  assessment/evaluation, and adaption of teaching to special learners. 8cr, either sem.		

SED EC 453: Early Childhood Practicum K
           			Develops competency in reading and language skills, social and science  education, basic elements of curriculum design, and the institutional  policies and practices of early childhood education. 8cr, both sem.		

SED EC 507: Role of Play in Child Development
	Examines theories of play. Role of play in cognitive, affective, and social development of the child; play   and creativity. Field observation and analysis required for licensure program students. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED EC 511: Early Childhood Curriculum and Prepracticum
	Seminars and fieldwork in early childhood classrooms. Seminars examine instructional practices in literacy  and language arts, social science, and science. 4cr, either sem.		

SED EC 516: Early Childhood Curriculum and Practicum, K-2
		Open only to matriculated graduate students. Includes reading and the other language arts, social science  and science education, as well as basic elements of curriculum design, instruction, assessment, and  classroom management in early childhood classrooms, K-2. Application in field settings. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED EC 553: Early Childhood Student-Teaching Practicum 1-2
           			Required of students who seek licensure in early childhood education. Supervised student teaching in a 1- 2 classroom (for undergraduates only) including classroom management and evaluation of the learner.  Requires participation in seminars. 10cr (undergraduate), either sem.		

SED EC 556: Children's Literature for the Early Childhood Teachers, Pre-K-2
	Introduces a wide array of children's literature, fiction and nonfiction, appropriate and necessary for the   establishment of a literacy-based classroom. Students develop criteria for literature evaluation, investigate   media's influence upon literature, and explore ways to incorporate children's literature throughout the  preK-2 curriculum. 2cr, either sem.		

SED EC 557: Classroom-Based Assessment of Young Children, Pre K-2
	Prepares early childhood majors to conduct assessment of children  within the classroom. History of assessment, current trends, and  assessment principles will be examined. Students will evaluate assessment tools and gain skills necessary  for classroom-based assessment. 2cr, either sem.		

SED EC 605: Topics in Child Development and Education
		In-depth coverage of selected aspects of development in children from birth to seven years. Includes both    descriptive information (milestones) and theory (processes accounting for development). Stresses    applications to early education. Taken concurrently with SED EC611 by graduate students in the licensure   program unless waiver is obtained. 4cr, 1st sem. 		

SED EC 611: Preschool Curriculum and Prepracticum
		Open only to matriculated graduate students in the licensure program.  Field-based course emphasizing instruction materials design, curriculm  development, and observation and assessment at the preschool level. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED EC 653: Early Childhood Practicum, Grades 1-2
		Required for students seeking licensure. Provides one semester of  supervised work in curriculum development, materials design, and  classroom organization and management. Requires 5-day-per-week  involvement in a Grades 1-2 classroom and participation in five seminars. 8cr, either sem.		

SED ED 201: Tutoring Struggling Readers and Writers
	This course is intended for those who are outside the profession of education (e.g. parents, community   workers, non-SED students) to support children and adults who find learning to read and write difficult.   The course will provide an introduction to the types of texts and teaching strategies that make a   difference.  		

SED ED 207: Contemporary Issues in Education Policy (International Perspective)
	A series of lectures and discussions designed to address contemporary issues in education, this course  will devote time each week to exploring aspects of education policy in different countries. Topics that will  be addressed include: school finance, school choice, international testing, policies affecting immigrant and  minority children, and the role of international organizations. Stillings, Wed. 6:00-7:30   		

SED ED 210: Exploring Careers in Science Education
	For science majors interested in exploring careers in science  education.  Students will work directly with   teachers from CityLab,  a  biotechnology learning laboratory at BU's School of Medicine and the Boston   Museum  of  Science.   Dates/times TBA		

SED ED 211: Emerging Technologies in Education
	Use wikis, blogs, social book marking, photo sharing sites, and podcasting to evaluate your own learning    and to create educational materials in this brand new 2-credit evening course.   (meets for entire  semester)		

SED ED 214: Educating Global Citizens
	Learn and act. Explore conflict resolution by studying current global events and teaching Boston-area high  school students the ?experiential education? approach to successful mediation. As a final project, small  groups author new, original geo-political case studies they employ in high school classrooms, gaining an  in-depth understanding of how to teach the origins, potential consequences and solutions to global issues  facing us today.		

SED ED 225: Project Citizen:  Promoting Civic Engagement
	Students apply a model of citizen action (Project Citizen) to analyze and influence a current public policy   of their choice. The course also examines how that model can be used to promote active and informed   citizenship among youth and adults. 2cr, on demand.		

SED ED 226: Tching Matters
	This course description is currently under construction.		

SED ED 231: Tutoring Readers and Writers
	This course is intended for those who are outside the profession of education (e.g. parents, community  workers, non-SED students) to support children and adults who find learning to read and write difficult.  The course will provide an introduction to the types of texts and teaching strategies that make a  difference.  		

SED ED 245: Theory and Practice of Peer Counseling
	Examines the theory of peer counseling and the development of specific counseling skills.  Students  enrolled in this class will serve as peer advisors in the CAS First Year Seminar course. 2 cr. Either sem.		

SED ED 246: Practicum in Peer Leadership and Mentoring
	Provides advanced mentoring training and leadership experience for selected students who have  completed ED245 (Theory and Practice or Peer Counseling). Students will mentor the students serving as  peer mentors in FY101 (First Year Seminar) and enrolled in ED245. 2cr, 1st sem.		

SED ED 251: Community Service in an Urban Setting
	For students participating in volunteer community service; reflect on the experience, with academically-   appropriate readings, periodic discussion guided by the instructor, and graded writing assignments. A1:   Volunteering in the Boston Public Schools. Instructor: Ruth Shane. B1: Volunteering with Reach out and  Read.  Instructor: Katherine Sullivan		

SED ED 410: Social Context of Education
           			How culture, race, language, poverty, social change, urban pressures, and rural isolation affect the work of  schools and other educational institutions, based upon reading, discussion, field research, and  extensive  writing by students. SED ED 410 A1 and ED 412 A1 must be taken in  the same semester or ED 410 B1 in  the fall and ED 412 B1 in the spring. 2cr.		

SED ED 412: Civic Context of Education
           			Political and professional decision making in education in a democracy, emergent issues in educational   policy, and the ethics of educational practice, based upon reading, discussion, planning exercises, and   extensive writing by students. ED 410 A1 and ED 412 A1 must be taken in the same semester or ED 410  B1 in the  fall and ED 412 B1 in the spring. 2cr.		

SED ED 500: Foundations of Educational Practices
		Open only to graduate students enrolled in classroom initial licensure  programs. Focuses on learning and teaching in schools in terms of  historical, philosophical, social, and political issues. An introduction to the  occupation of teaching through placement in local schools, lectures,  readings, written assignments, and small group discussions. 6cr, 1st sem, Summer Term.		

SED ED 501: Foundations of Educational Practice Lab
	Orientation to school requirements, state licensure, and technology.  Introduction to the uses of educational media and technology in  classrooms. Includes introduction to networks accessible to teachers and  students. Must be taken concurrently with SED ED 500. 1st sem, Summer Term.		

SED ED 502: Ana Fnds Tch
			

SED ED 503: Professional Teaching Seminar I: Analyzing Foundations of Teaching
	Introductory seminar analyzes important foundational teaching issues: varieties of excellent teaching,  diverse philosophies of schools, curriculum complexities in middle and senior high schools, history of  education for the 20th and 21st centuries, and the power of community - culture - school inter-relations.  ED 502 A1 must be taken in the fall, and ED 503 A1 must be taken in the spring.		

SED ED 600: Schooling in the United States
	 An overview of the social and policy context of elementary and secondary schooling in the United States,  and of current reform initiatives, through readings, guest speakers, discussions, and field experiences in  urban schools. 4 cr. either sem.		

SED ED 703: Intellectual History of Education: Plato, Rousseau, James and Lewis
	Readings in and discussion of The Republic, Ã‰mile, Talks with Teachers,  and The Abolition of Man? Intended to introduce doctoral students to the thinking and writing about  significant issues in education with conceptual sophistication. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED ED 704: The Intellectual Foundations of Education
	Emphasize close readings of selections from significant philosophic texts, discussions about the issues   they raise, and connections to contemporary debates about American education. Included will be   selections from Locke, Franklin, Jefferson, Rousseau, Pestalozzi, Emerson, Mann, and Dewey. 4cr, 2nd  sem.		

SED ED 950: Continuing Study
	For EdM, CAGS, and EdD candidates who have completed all coursework and who are preparing for  comprehensive examinations or dissertation hearings, or are completing theses. No credit.		

SED EM 670: Advanced Interactive Software Development
	Achieving the learning objectives of student-designed projects shapes student learning of advanced,   multimedia, and authoring software. Students use software to build, test, and revise their own interactive,   educational, multimedia, and program designs. Best taken in conjunction with EM690 or EM731. 2cr, 2nd  sem.		

SED EM 810: Practicum: Instructional Technology
		Field experience offered in media facilities of industry, higher education, health services, and instructional  technology-centered school activities. Students spend time in media facilities programs. Variable cr, either  sem.		

SED EM 812: Internship: Educational Technology
		Supervised fieldwork in various educational media settings. Selection of site and conditions is determined  by student's preparation and program requirements. Variable cr.		

SED EN 501: Teaching Classic and Contemporary Texts
	Students will examine the demands of texts in the secondary classroom and components of successful  reading. The course will analyze research-based practices in reading instruction in the middle and  secondary English Language Arts classes. Methods for assessing and differentiating according to various  dimensions will be introduced. 4cr. 1st sem.		

SED EN 502: Student-Teaching Reflective Seminar
	EN502 offers undergraduate English Education majors engaging in their student-teaching the opportunity  to come together weekly with a faculty member to reflect upon successes, challenges, and questions raised  by the internship. Students will engage in common readings and write short weekly reflections that  synthesize assigned readings and the internship experience. 2cr, 1st sem.		

SED EN 503: Lesson Design &amp; Instruction Delivery in the Humanities
	This course will introduce students to different models of lesson planning and unit planning as well as  research-based strategies for effective instructional delivery in the secondary humanities classroom. It will  include a 75 hour pre-practicum experience. 4cr, either sem.		

SED EN 504: Student-Teaching Half Practicum: English, 5-8
		Minimum 150 hours required. For description, see SED EN 507. 4 cr, 1st sem.		

SED EN 505: Student-Teaching Half Practicum: English 8-12
           			Minimum 150 hours required. For description, see SED EN 508. 4 cr, 1st sem.		

SED EN 506: Curriculum Materials and Teaching Strategies in English
	Considers research-based strategies for teaching short fiction, poetry, novels, drama, grammar, and   vocabulary. The course also considers key aspects of the teaching and learning process such as lesson and   unit planning, assessment, and the role of local, state and federal standards in the English/Language Arts   classroom. 4 cr, 1st sem.		

SED EN 507: Student-Teaching Practicum: English, Grades 5-8
           			Full-time student-teaching in selected middle schools for a period of 12 weeks. Should be taken  concurrently with SED EN506. Minimum 300 hours required. 8 cr, either sem.		

SED EN 508: Student-Teaching Practicum: English, 8-12
	Full-time student teaching in selected high schools for a period of 12 weeks. Should be taken  concurrently with SED EN506. Minimum 300 hours required. 8 cr, either sem.		

SED EN 512: Methods of Teaching Writing in Secondary English Language Arts
	EN512 introduces aspiring middle and secondary English/Language Arts teachers to research-based  practices for effective writing instruction. Topics include writing workshop, mentor texts, genre study,  strategy instruction, process-based instruction and revision. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED EN 608: Student-Teaching Practicum: English, 5-8
		Only for matriculated graduate students seeking professional licensure under current program. Full-time  student-teaching in selected schools. Six weeks; Minimum 150 hours required. 4 cr, 1st sem.		

SED EN 609: Student-Teaching Practicum: English, 8-12
		Only for matriculated graduate students seeking current professional licensure. Full-time teaching in  selected high schools. Six weeks; Minimum 150 hours required. 4 cr, either sem.		

SED EN 701: Teaching Classic and Contemporary Texts
		Students will examine the demands of texts in the secondary classroom and components of successful  reading. The course will analyze research-based practices in reading instruction in the middle and  secondary English Language Arts classes. Methods for assessing and differentiating according to various  dimensions will be introduced. 4cr. 1st sem.		

SED EN 712: Methods of Teaching Writing in Secondary English Language Arts
	The course introduces graduate aspiring middle and secondary English/Language Arts teachers to  research-based practices for effective writing instruction and contains opportunities for application in a  field experience. Topics include writing workshop, mentor texts, genre study, strategy instruction,  process-based instruction and revision. 4cr. 2nd sem.		

SED HE 221: Foundations of Health Education
	Provides the foundation for improving health through modification of daily  habits. Analysis of nutrition, exercise, stress, substance abuse, and  environmental health. 2cr, either sem.		

SED HE 522: Community Health
	Examines the interrelationship of school and community health programs. Community health services,  health environment, and healthful living emphasized. The responsibilities and the coordination of school  and agency personnel in total health education programs are addressed. 4 cr, 1st sem.		

SED HE 523: Applied Nutrition
	Essential principles of nutrition applied to educational programs in school  and community agencies. Enrichment of courses in heath education, nursing education, and allied health  fields. Presentations by outstanding leaders in the areas of nutrition, medicine, public health, and  education. 4 cr, either sem.		

SED HE 554: Health Education Student Teaching Grades K-12
	Licensure track health education students complete this final practicum in the public schools with a   licensed health educator as their supervising practitioner. The twelve-week practicum provides the   opportunity for applying theory with teaching exposure in two school settings (secondary, middle and/or   elementary). 8 cr, either sem.		

SED HE 722: Curriculum Development for Health, Movement and Wellness
	For individuals in a variety of settings involved in planning curricula related to health, movement and  wellness. Explores influences on curriculum development and implementation focusing on effective  planning for behavior change in a variety of populations within schools and communities. 4 cr, 1st sem.		

SED LC 500: Directed Study
	Open to undergraduate students only. Prereq: approval of advisor, the faculty member who is to supervise  the study, and department chair. Plans must be submitted in advance of registration on a form obtained  from the department office. Variable cr, either sem.		

SED LC 900: Independent Study
	See SED AP 900 for description.		

SED LC 999: Dissertation Advisement
	See SED AP 999 for description.		

SED LP 999: London SED Prog
			

SED LR 501: Teaching of Reading
	For upperlevel undergraduate and beginning graduate students without experience in teaching.   Study of  reading development in childhood and early adolescence, and the implications for  teaching and learning.   Discussion of theory and research in effective instruction, and the  application of both to effective lesson  planning. 4 cr.either sem. 		

SED LR 503: Reading and Writing Assessment
	Acquaints undergraduate students in Special Education and Elementary Education with strategies  for  assessing literacy and abilities of students classified as general education leatners.  Analysis of  prototypic  case studies.  Provides foundation for a two-credit module (SED SE 515) that addresses  the particular  needs of special populations.  2 cr. either sem. 		

SED LR 551: Reading Development, Assessment, and Instruction in the Elementary School
	For beginning graduate students without experience in the teaching of reading. Study of reading   development in childhood and early adolescence, and the implications for teaching and learning.   Discussion of theory and research on effective instruction and assessment, and the application of  both to  teaching. 4Â&nbsp;cr, either sem. Not open to students who have completed SED LR 501 and/or  LR 503. 4cr,  either sem.		

SED LR 782: History of Reading Research
	Analysis and synthesis of the classic and contemporary research literature on reading with a  focus of the  historical trends in methodology, understanding the theoretical processes, and the state of the art  instructional practices over time. Exploration of the implications for teaching and learning, and for future  research. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED LS 560: Introduction to Language and Language Acquisition
	Introduction to the main aspects of language and language acquisition in typical, atypical, and second  language learners. Topic areas include phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics, pragmatics, child- directed speech, the role of cognitive development, and theories of language acquisition. Students will  apply this course material during weekly observations of a language learner. 4cr, each sem.		

SED LS 565: Introduction to Language and Linguistics
	An introduction to contemporary linguistics, including phonological and syntactical theory, sociolinguistics, first- and second-language acquisition, and discourse theory. Also covers applications of various branches of linguistics to education, including issues of different cultures in the classroom, the role of language in education, and the development of literacy.		

SED LS 595: Child Second Language Acquisitions
	This course explores issues and theories in child second language acquisition in a second or foreign  classroom context. It's designed to meet the needs of those intending to teach second (or foreign)  languages to children in the US or overseas.		

SED LS 626: Cross Cult Comm
	This course description is currently under construction.		

SED LS 627: Critical Analysis of Children's and Young Adult Literature
	Overview of children's and young adult literature, including introduction to authors, illustrators, and  literary genres, and exploration and discussion of distinctive portrayals (e.g., genders, cultures,  ethnicities, religions). The course is intended to develop overall knowledge of texts, awareness and  understanding of critical issues that surround children's and young adult literature, and an  understanding of how to evaluate and select texts for use in and out of school settings. This course  requires substantial reading of selected children's and young adult literature. 4cr. 2nd sem.		

SED LS 658: Second Language Acquisition
	Research and theories of second-language acquisition. Includes the  research on naturalistic and classroom second-language learning. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED LS 690: Context for Literacy: Oral and Written Discourse
	Introduces students to a variety of issues and perspectives that characterize approaches to the study of  literature, language, and culture. Students develop knowledge and understanding of current approaches to  the study of discourse as a developmental and sociological phenomenon and as part of school-based  learning. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED LS 734: The Roles and Responsibilities of the Literacy Specialist: Leadership, Coaching, Teaching (Prepracticum)
	Observation of a literacy specialist with attention to how the literacy specialist acts as a school-wide  leader, coaches teachers, and provides literacy instruction to children. Course readings and discussions  examine the multiple roles of a literacy specialist. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED LS 735: Teaching Struggling Readers and Writers in the Elementary School
	Examination of theory and research that guides instruction of struggling readers and writers in K-6     classrooms. Includes study of the effects of various grouping practices, types of texts, and instructional     strategies and routines. 4cr. 2nd sem.		

SED LS 750: Cognitive Development and Language
	Various philosophical and research positions exist concerning the  relation between cognition and language, including cognitive  interactionism (Piaget), social interactionism (Vygotsky), innateness  (Chomsky), linguistic relativity (Whorf), information processing  (MacWhinney), and theory (Gopnick). These positions are discussed,  compared, and assessed in light of research findings bearing on different  topics (e.g., word learning, theory of mind). Students are able to apply  course material to a related topic of their choice. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED LS 790: Seminar in Literacy Assessment: Research/Theory/Practice
	Intra/interdisciplinary review of theory and research related to literacy and  language. Exploration of implications for assessment in instructional and  service settings. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED LS 792: Teaching Adolescent Literacy
	Exploration of current theory and research regarding reading and writing processes and practices among  adolescents in and out of school. Particular attention will be given to the integration of literacy instruction  within content disciplines and the relevance of out-of-school literacies to in-school instruction. 4cr, 1st  sem. 		

SED LW 736: Teaching Writing in Elementary, Middle, and Secondary Schools
	Study of research and theory that informs an understanding of the writing process, the  development of  writing abilities, and writing instruction and assessment.  Application of the  literature to classroom  practice at the elementary, middle and secondary school levels. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED LW 781: Processes of Writing
	Investigation of the theory and research related to writing.  Exploration of implications for  assessment,  instructional design, and educational planning. 4cr, 1st sem, alternate years		

SED ME 360: Mathematics for Teaching: Algebra
	Revisits school algebra from an advanced perspective, with emphasis on multiple representations, making  generalizations, and justifications. Topics include variables, patterns, functions, and linear algebra.  Attention to contemporary issues in curriculum, learning, teaching, technology, and other tools are woven  throughout. 4cr, either sem.		

SED ME 503: Mathematical Reasoning in the Elementary Grades: Number Systems
	This four-credit course is a prerequisite for ME 504. It is required for graduate students majoring in   elementary education who are preparing to become teachers of children in kindergarten through grade   five. This course focuses on topics in number systems and operations with an emphasis on number,   operations, mental mathematics, proportionality, number theory, and probability. Students explore the   mathematics from the perspective of a student and a teacher. The emphasis is on making sense of key   ideas of number and operations and on exploring how students? understanding of these topics emerge   and develop. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED ME 504: Mathematical Reasoning in the Elementary Grades: Algebra, Geometry, &amp; Statistics
		This course is required for graduate students majoring in elementary education who are preparing to  become teachers of children in kindergarten through grade five. This course focuses on topics in algebra,  geometry, measurement and statistics. Students explore mathematics form the perspective of student and  teacher. The emphasis is on making sense of key ideas in algebra and geometry and on exploring how  student's understanding of these topics emerge and develop. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED ME 506: Student-Teaching Half Practicum: Mathematics, 5-8
		Minimum 150 hours required, Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed pre- requisites. For description, see SED ME507. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED ME 507: Student-Teaching Practicum: Mathematics, 5-8
		Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed pre-requisites. Student teaching: a full- time experience in a selected school under joint supervision of a cooperating teacher and a University  representative. Minimum 300 hours. 8cr, 2nd sem. 		

SED ME 508: Student-Teaching Practicum: Mathematics, 8-12
		Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed pre-requisites. Student teaching: a full- time experience in a selected secondary school under joint supervision of a cooperating teacher and a  University representative. Minimum 300 hours required. 8cr, 2nd sem.		

SED ME 509: Student-Teaching Half Practicum: Mathematics, 8-12
		Minimum 150 hours required. Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed pre- requisites. For description, see SED ME 508. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED ME 525: Assessment in Mathematics
	This course introduced pre-service and in-service mathematics teachers to the theory and practice of  assessment in mathematics. This course prepares teachers to apply research-supported assessment  techniques in their classrooms. Discussion about important issues in assessment around mathematics will  be encouraged. 2 cr, 2nd Sem, Summer.		

SED ME 530: Equitable Pedagogies in STEM Education
	This course examines the teaching and learning of mathematics and science in urban schools. Considers  how issues of  race, gender, class, language and culture affect the nature of mathematics and science  education in schools. Successful methodologies and projects for teaching algebra to diverse populations  are explored. 2cr, either sem.		

SED ME 545: Methods of Teaching Mathematics: Elementary
	Introduces strategies, activites, assessment, and materials for teaching mathematical concepts and skills,  grades K-6. Emphasis on how children develop knowledge of unifying ideas of mathematics. 4cr, either  sem.		

SED ME 546: Methods of Teaching Mathematics: Middle School
	Analysis of research on strategies, activities, assessment, and materials  for teaching mathematical concepts and skills, grades 5-8. Focus on structures and models of algebraic  and geometric concepts and applications. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED ME 547: Methods of Teaching Mathematics: High School
	Analysis of research on strategies, activities, and materials for teaching  mathematical concepts and skills, grades 8-12. Concepts from geometry,  higher algebra, probability and statistics, trigonometry, and calculus. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED ME 558: Mathematics Curriculum: Program Issues, Trends
	Analysis of historical, mathematical, and psychological factors influencing  pre-K-12 mathematics curricula. Focuses on national and international standards, research on learning  and teaching with understanding, and integrated curricula. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED ME 559: Mathematics for Teaching: Geometry
	Revisits geometry from an advanced perspective, preparing teachers to teach geometry with  understanding. Topics such as transformations, nonmetric, Euclidean, and non-Euclidean geometries are  explored with a focus on teaching with technology. 4cr, either sem.		

SED ME 560: Mathematics for Teaching: Algebra
	Revisits school algebra from an advanced perspective, with emphasis on multiple representations, making  generalizations, and justifications. Topics include variables, patterns, functions, and linear algebra.  Attention to contemporary issues in curriculum, learning, teaching, technology, and other tools are woven  throughout. 4cr, either sem.		

SED ME 563: Problem Solving in Mathematics
	Explores big ideas in mathematics through solving sets of challenging problems and connects to issues in  teaching and learning. Topics include: research on problem solving, problem design, and implications of a  problem-solving approach in school mathematics. 4cr, 2nd sem. 		

SED ME 589: Designing Professional Development Programs in Mathematics Education
		Students examine models for the professional development of mathematics teachers; conduct needs   assessment of the teachers in their target groups; and design professional development programs that   respond to those needs. Programs focus on upgrading mathematical content knowledge and pedagogical   and assessment practices. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED PE 103: Intro. to Human Movement
	Historical, philosophical, physical, intellectual, and psychosocial reasons for human movement: emotional    expression, ego development, interpersonal relationships, communication, fitness, safety, work, health,    and recreation. 2cr, 1st sem.		

SED PE 211: Movement Education: Early Childhood to Adolescence
	Assists special education and elementary school teachers in the organization, planning, and integrating of  motor activities. Children from the Boston public schools are taught skills in the areas of rhythms,  gymnastics, creative games, and ball activities; movement principles. 2 cr, either sem. Staff On Demand 		

SED PE 250: Community Leadership through Youth Sport Coaching
	This course will enable students to gain an understanding of the roles and responsibilities of the youth   sport coach as well as to develop basic coaching skills through classroom study of coaching theory   combined with practical involvement in a community sport organization. 		

SED PE 375: Psychology of Sport
	Introduction to the field of sport psychology. An overview of theory and practice related to contemporary  issues in the field, including personality and performance, motivation, attention control, leadership styles,  stress/arousal/anxiety, athletic counseling, performance enhancement techniques, and testing and  performance motivation.  4cr, either sem.		

SED PE 502: Mvmt/Phys Activ
	This course description is currently under construction.		

SED PE 505: Foundations of Sport Science
	Overview of essential concepts in the sport sciences, including: exercise, physiology, sport  biomechanics,  principles of strength and endurance training, and sport nutrition. Open to  advanced undergraduate  students and graduate students interested in the sport sciences.  2Â&nbsp;or 3cr, either sem.   		

SED PE 506: Motor Development: Considerations for Planning Movement
	For classroom teachers, special education teachers, and movement specialists. Examines motor     development and methods of adapting physical activities for students who may have physical, cognitive,   social/emotional, learning, and/or sensory disabilities. 4Â&nbsp;cr, 1st sem. 		

SED PE 513: Practical Applications for PE and HE
	Through a combination of seminar and practicum experiences, students learn and apply current theory and    methods for implementing physical and health education. The focus is on providing students experiences    in observing, planning and implementing effective learning activities and lessons. 4 cr. 1st sem. 		

SED PE 529: The Psychology of Coaching Teams
		This course aims to give students a better understanding of the complex web of psychological factors  that coaches contend with when trying to create a successful team. Central topics include leadership,  group cohesion, collective-efficacy, systems theory, group psychodynamics and team dynamics.  Students study different theories that might explain group and team behavior. As part of their learning  students are required to participate in a group project to experience a team dynamic firsthand. The  course also focuses on understanding how great coaches accomplish their success. An important aspect  of the course is for students to consider the ethical and moral dimensions of coaching in different  contexts. In this discussion we examine the central topics of sportsmanship and character development.  4cr, either sem.		

SED PE 580: Student Teaching Practicum:  Physical Education, Pre-K-8
	Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed prerequisites. For students  seeking  initial licensure in physical education in elementary and middle schools. Students are  placed in schools for  daily school schedule and are supervised jointly by cooperating practitioners  and University personnel.  Minimum 300 hours required.  8Â&nbsp;cr, either sem.		

SED PE 581: Student Teaching Half Practicum:  Physical Education, Pre-K-8
	Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed prerequisites. For students  seeking  current initial licensure in physical education, i.e., Pre-K-8 and 5-12. Course supplements  SED PE 582.  Students are placed in schools for the daily school schedule and are supervised  jointly by cooperating  practitioners and University personnel. Minimum 150 hours required.   4Â&nbsp;cr, either sem.		

SED PE 582: Student Teaching Practicum:  Physical Education 5-12
	Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed prerequisites. For students  seeking  initial licensure in physical education in middle, junior, and senior high schools. Students  are placed in  schools for daily school schedule and are supervised jointly by cooperating  practitioners and University  personnel. Minimum 300 hours required.  8Â&nbsp;cr, either sem.		

SED PE 583: Student Teaching Half Practicum:  Physical Education, 5-12
	Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed prerequisites. For students  seeking  current initial licensure in physical education, i.e., 5-12. This course is needed in addition  to SED PE 580.  Students are placed in schools for the daily school schedule and are supervised  jointly by cooperating  practitioners and University personnel. Minimum 150 hours required.  4Â&nbsp;cr, either sem.		

SED PE 584: Half Prac:5-12
			

SED PE 591: Coaching Practica
	These courses are designed to assist students in preparing for their practical experiences coaching.  Through discussion of readings, reflection and written work, students help each other, with the assistance  of the instructor, to solve problems related to experiences at the practicum sites. 2cr, either sem.		

SED PE 592: Coaching Practica
	These courses are designed to assist students in preparing for their practical experiences coaching.  Through discussion of readings, reflection and written work, students help each other, with the assistance  of the instructor, to solve problems related to experiences at the practicum sites. 2cr, either sem.		

SED PE 705: Analysis of Teaching Movement
	Teaching human movement activities in the context of innovative techniques, current humanizing   influences, shared decision-making principles, and psychosocial influences in general motor  learning.  Converts basic physical educational theories and current research into classroom,  gymnasium, and playing  field practices.  4Â&nbsp;cr, 2nd sem. 		

SED PE 710: Sport Theory and Social Systems
	Relationship of sport and cultural dynamics, sociogenic factors underlying competitive physical  activity,  and the behavioral responses of sport participants to various sociocultural motivations.  Role of sport in  past and current societies.  4Â&nbsp;cr, 1st sem.  		

SED PE 720: Seminar in Kinesiology
	Application of muscular analysis to motor functions. Integration of structural, functional,  biomechanical,   developmental, and psychological components within physical activities. Focus on  the mechanism of   movement through laboratory analysis. 2cr, 1st sem.		

SED QT 999: Quito SED Prog
			

SED RS 600: Introduction to Research
	This course introduces students to the skills and methods used in conducting research and in  establishing the criteria for identifying research-based practice, interventions and curriculum in  education settings. Students will become familiar with quantitative, mixed method, and action research  approached to inquiry. Students will develop skills in conducting literature searched, examining  empirical research studies and learning how to apply these methods to answer questions that are  relevant to their graduate program area. Students should leave this course better consumers of research  findings presented in the mass media, able to critically read primary research articles and able to  participate in research-based efforts to improve education.  4cr, either sem.		

SED RS 652: Qualitative Research Methods
	The historical and theoretical bases and the techniques for conducting qualitative research. Analysis of the  questions for which qualitative research is best suited and how it differs from quantitative research.  Consideration of ethical issues in qualitative research. Students critique published research and engage in  planning a study, gaining entry, collecting and analyzing data, and presenting the findings. 4cr, either sem.		

SED RS 653: Quantitative Research Methods
	Conceptualization of quantitative research problems. Study descriptive  and inferential statistics most commonly used for analyzing data in  educational research including t-tests, ANOVAs, multiple comparisons,  correlation, regression, and chi square. Emphasis placed on  interpretation. Research project requires identifying a problem, gathering  and analyzing data, and writing the results in APA format. 4cr, either sem.		

SED RS 654: Educational Inquiry and Proposal Writing
	Required of all doctoral students. Open only to matriculated doctoral students who have completed the  prerequisites. Overview of foundational questions related to what is important and knowable about  educational matters (including issues of objectivity and subjectivity) and how different empirical  methods of inquiry respond to such questions. Topics include: standards of believability,  persuasiveness, and utility in different kinds of inquiry and the relationships among theoretical,  quantitative and qualitative methods in the cycle of scientific discovery. Emphasis is on formulating  significant research questions, clarifying important concepts for research, and preparing sound research  proposals. 4cr, either sem.		

SED RS 699: Research Apprenticeship
	Collaboration with a faculty member on funded or unfunded research. Particular focus will depend on the  stage of design or implementation of the particular study, and may include formulation and refinement or  research questions, design of the methodological plan, data collection, analysis, interpretation, and report  of findings. Variable cr, either sem.		

SED RS 750: Advanced Research Seminar
		For doctoral students who have already clarified their research interests and are ready to work on their  dissertation proposals. Provides direction on substantive and procedural issues in the design  and conduct of research. Requires students to present drafts of their  dissertation proposals for critique in seminar format and to contribute to the  constructive criticism of proposals presented by fellow classmates. 4cr, 1st sem. Includes pilot study.		

SED RS 751: Program Evaluation
		Alternative approaches to evaluation; consideration of stakeholders; specification of multiple outcomes;  program monitoring; formative and summative designs; practical guidelines for planning, conducting,  reporting, and using evaluations; role of the evaluator; necessary skills; political, ethical, and interpersonal  aspects. Applicable to curricular interventions, training programs, social action projects, social policies.  Case studies and student proposals are critiqued in seminar. Requires some pilot testing. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED RS 752: Seminar in Qualitative Research
	Designed for advanced doctoral students who are analyzing and/or interpreting qualitative data to work  with other students under the direction of a faculty member. Students in the course will give presentations  of their ongoing work, which will be subject to feedback form the entire semester. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SC 375: Exploring Science Teaching: A Practical Experience
	Students will explore science teaching through observation of secondary school science classrooms and,  where possible, through participation in the classroom instruction. Readings discussed in seminar will  prepare students to interact in the classroom and to prepare lesson plans. 2cr. either sem.		

SED SC 507: Student-Teaching Half Practicum: Science, 5-8
		Minimum 150 hours required. Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed  prerequisites. For description, see SED SC 509. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SC 509: Student-Teaching Practicum: Science, 5-8
		Student teaching: a full-time experience in a selected school under joint supervision of a cooperating  practitioner and a University representative. Minimum 300 hours required. 8cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SC 510: Student-Teaching Practicum: Science, 8-12
		Student teaching: a full-time experience in a selected secondary school under joint supervision of a  cooperating practitioner and a University representative. Minimum 300 hours required. 8cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SC 521: Introduction to STEM Education Theory and Practice
	This course provides an introduction to modern learning theory emphasizing inquiry learning in the   classroom for science, engineering and mathematics. 2cr, either sem.		

SED SC 539: Explaining Science: a Philosophical Perspective
	An analysis of science from a philosophical and historial perspective.  What distinguishes scientific knowing? What vision has science given us  of the universe and humanity's place within it? And how can answers to  such questions inform the presentation of science to students and other non-scientists? 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SC 570: Sci Teach Meth
			

SED SC 572: Science Methods II: Teaching in the Science Disciplines
	This course emphasizes the practical applications of instructional strategies and teaching skills presented  in science methods I. It emphasizes the pedagogical content knowledge in the respective disciplines as  they are being practiced in the student teaching practicum. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SC 576: Science Teaching Pre-Practicum
	Pre-service teachers will participate in a pre-practicum experience in local schools where they will have  the opportunity to study and practice science teaching methods addressed in SC570: Science Teaching  Methods.		

SED SC 595: Laboratory Learning in Life Sciences
	Course integrated academic content in basic biology, with instruction in how to learn in laboratory  settings, includes analysis preparation, adjusting to variations in experiments, devising suitable pedagogy,  and on-suite instructional strategies. Emphasizes student's reflective inquiry. 2cr, either sem.		

SED SD 999: Sydney SED Prog
			

SED SE 250: Disability, Education, and Public Policy
	Relationships of disability to individual, educational, social, legal, and family structures and processes.  Overview of educational structures, processes, and collaboration of regular and special education. Issues of  social class, equity, discrimination, institutionalization, and normalization. Family-agency relationships.  4cr, either sem.		

SED SE 251: Special Education and Adolescents
	Educational needs, practices, regulations, and issues in educating adolescents with identified special  educational needs. This course is designed for teachers in middle and high school. Emphasis is placed on  collaboration with special educators. 2cr, either sem.		

SED SE 315: Field Experience: Special Education: Severe Disabilities
	Designed to provide opportunities for observation and participation with students having disabilities and  enrolled in special education programs. 2cr, either sem.		

SED SE 316: Field Work in Special Education: Severe Disabilities
	A second fieldwork course is designed to provide opportunities for undergraduate students for observation  and  participation with students having severe  disabilities and enrolled in special education programs. 2cr,  either sem.		

SED SE 401: Special Education: Cognition and Learning
	Not open to students who have taken either SED SE 501 or SE 503. An examination of special education  populations through selected topics of learning, cognition, and development. The emphasis will be on  persons with "cognitive problems", including groups identified as having learning disabilities, intellectual  impairments, and developmental disabilities. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED SE 480: Teaching Students with Special Needs
           			Focuses on methods for teaching students with special needs, including informal assessment, instructional  planning, curriculum evaluation and modification, and classroom organization and management. 4cr, 2nd  sem.		

SED SE 493: Practicum in Disabilities Studies
	Students are involved in practicum experiences in human services agencies serving individuals with  disabilities. Concurrent seminars discuss the nature and processes of service provision, roles and  responsibilities, and collaboration. Students work for a minimum of 150 hours in agency for 4cr, and 300  hours for 8cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SE 500: Directed Study
	For description, see SED AP 500.		

SED SE 502: Behavioral and Emotional Problems: Characteristics and Methods
	Behavior disorders of children and youths in educational, clinical, and social settings. Development and  implementation of strategies for children and youths with emotional and behavioral problems. Parent  counseling, precision teaching and other strategies. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SE 504: An Introduction to Early Childhood Disabilities
	Introduction to etiology, history, service delivery models, and issues and trends relating to young children  with needs and individuals of all ages with disabilities. 2cr, 1st sem.		

SED SE 505: An Introduction to Severe Disabilities
	Introduction to etiology, history, service delivery models, and issues and trends related to individuals with  severe disabilities. 2cr, 1st sem.		

SED SE 507: Early Childhood Disabilities/Severe Disabilities: Assessment and Instructional Planning
		Planning, implementation, and evaluation of education programs for  individuals with early childhood disabilities and severe disabilities. Includes instructional goal setting,  assessment, implementation strategies, and methods for evaluating instructional effectiveness. 4cr, 1st  sem.		

SED SE 508: Early Childhood Disabilities/Sever Disabilities: Curriculum and Methods
		Content and methods for teaching young children with special needs and  students of all ages with severe handicapping conditions. Includes  strategies for facilitating development in motor, communication, social,  pre-academic, self-care, vocational, and recreational domains. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SE 510: Special Education: Curriculum and Instruction
	Principles of curriculum and instruction for students with disabilities  educated in regular classroom settings. Studies in typical and atypical  human development. Introduction to resources appropriate to the  instruction of children with special needs. 2cr, either sem, Summer 1		

SED SE 515: Assessment in Special Education: Procedures
           			Examines assessment practices, both alternative assessment and standardized test instruments; it will   address non-literacy areas of assessment. It is expected that students will take a parallel reading   assessment course. 2cr, either sem.		

SED SE 533: The Families of Children with Special Needs
	Introductory survey of family personal issues, communicative processes,  and school/agency relationships. Topics include sibling relationships and extended  family patterns a survey of parent counseling and training approaches, single  parenting, and the adoption of handicapped children. Emphasizes transcultural concerns and  psychoeducational case-studies. 4cr, 1st sem.  		

SED SE 534: Classroom and Behavior Management
	Theoretical bases and implementation strategies of effective classroom  and behavior management for  students with and without disabilities in  elementary school settings., The focus of the course will be on  individual,  classroom, and schoolwide approaches in schools today. 2cr, either sem.		

SED SE 535: Understd Autism
			

SED SE 580: Methods and Materials in Special Education: General
		Strategies, methods, materials, and curricula for students with special  needs. Educational approaches  emphasizing individual educational  programs. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SE 584: Methods and Materials: Moderate Disabilities, 5-12
	Methods and materials relevant to the instruction of secondary-level  students with disabilities. Topics include: legislation and litigation, basic  instructional modifications, transition and career education, instruction in  specific content areas, state competency frameworks, and critical issues. 2cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SE 590: Learning and the Brain
	By conjoining the lectures offered in the "Learning and the Brain" conference with seminar class time, this  course offers students an opportunity to explore various topics in brain research as well as consider these  issues in the context of classroom activities		

SED SE 593: Practicum/Practicum Equivalent:Students with Moderate Disabilities, Pre-K-8
		Student-teaching experience with students in integrated classrooms or special classes. Seminar in  classroom practices. Minimum 300 hours. 8cr, either sem.		

SED SE 594: Practicum/Practicum Equivalent: Students with Moderate Disabilities, 5-12
		Student-teaching experience with children in integrated classrooms or special classes. Seminar in  classroom practices. Minimum 300 hours. 8cr, either sem.		

SED SE 595: Practicum/Practicum Equivalent: Student with Severe Disabilities, Pre-K-12
		Student-teaching experience in schools, day and residential settings. Seminar in classroom practices.  Minimum 300 hours. 8cr, either sem.		

SED SE 598: Half Practicum: Students with Moderate Disabilities, Pre-K-8
	Student teaching experience open only to students doing "combined" elementary/moderate disabilities  licensure programs. Having successfully completed a minimum of 300 hours in an inclusive elementary  placement, students will complete an additional 150 hours in an inclusive general education setting  focusing on students with moderate disabilities. 4cr, eitehr sem.		

SED SE 613: Field Work in Special Education: Moderate Disabilities
	Designed to provide opportunities for observation and participation  with students having moderate  disabilities and enrolled in special education programs. 2cr, either sem.		

SED SE 615: Fieldwork in Special Education: Severe Disabilities
	 Designed to provide opportunities for observation and participation  with students having severe   disabilities and enrolled in special education programs. 2cr, either sem.		

SED SE 650: Children at Risk
	Advances knowledge of theories, research, and practice about children and adolescents whose physical and  psychological well being is at risk. Course literature will be drawn from research and theory on normal  child and adolescent development, as well as from work on disorders in children and adolescents.  Topics  include: poverty, substance abuse, the institutionalization of children, adoption, mental illness, school  dropouts, physical and emotional abuse, domestic violence, and children will special needs. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SE 693: Practicum in Disabilities Studies
	Students are involved in practicum experiences in human services agencies serving individuals with   disabilities. Concurrent seminars discuss the nature and processes of service provision, roles and   responsibilities, and collaboration.  Students work for a minimum of 150 hours in the agency for 4 credits   and 300 hours for 8 credits.		

SED SE 700: Clinical Practice:Teacher of Students with  Moderate Special Needs
		Required of students who wish to apply for standard certification as teachers of students with moderate  disabilities. Integrates content area knowledge and pedagogical theory and practice. Involves  responsibilities beyond the individual classroom which may include opportunities such as grade-level  teamwork, curriculum development, and assessment projects. Minimum 400 hours required. 4-8cr, either  sem.		

SED SE 701: Clinical Practice:Teacher of Students with Severe Disabilities
		Required of students who wish to apply for professional licensure as teachers of students with severe  disabilities. Integrates content area knowledge and pedagogical theory and practice. Involves  responsibilities beyond the individual classroom which may include opportunities such as grade-level  teamwork, curriculum development, and assessment projects. Minimum 400 hours required. 4cr, either  sem.		

SED SE 702: Clinical Practice:Special Education Administration
		Required of students who wish to apply for licensure as an Administrator of Special Education. Integrates  content-area knowledge and pedagogical theory and practice. Builds upon the practicum experience. A  minimum of 400 hours is required. Instructor permission required.		

SED SE 706: Introduction to Special Education
	Improves students' understanding of individuals with disabilities; traces the development of their programs  and services; and analyzes and critiques key assumptions, attitudes, and beliefs about special education  practices. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED SE 751: Assessment in Special Education: Procedures
	Examines both alternative assessment and standardized test instruments. Assessment practices and critical  issues are addressed, including the assessment of culturally and linguistically diverse pupils. Examples  include math, literacy/reading, social/adaptive behaviors, cognitive aptitude, and career-vocational  considerations. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SE 760: Special Education: Cognition, Learning, and Behavior
	Examines characteristics of learning disabilities, emotional disturbance, intellectual impairments, speech  and language disabilities, developmental disabilities, and attention deficit disorder, as related to the major  learning theories.  2cr, 1st sem.		

SED SE 807: Field Experience
		Graduate students are involved in field experiences in schools, institutions, clinics, and other human  services agencies. Concurrent seminars discuss strategies of intervention and/or curriculum planning or  assessment procedures. Students must register for a minimum of 2 credits. 2cr, 1st sem.		

SED SE 808: Internship: Students with Special Needs, Pre-K-8
			

SED SE 900: Independent Study
	See SED AP 900 for description.		

SED SE 999: Dissertation Advisement
	See SED AP 999 for description.		

SED SO 507: Student-Teaching Half Practicum: History and Social Science, 5-8
		Minimum 150 hours required. OPen only to matriculated graduate students who have completed  prerequisites. For description, see SED SO 509. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SO 508: Student-Teaching Half Practicum: History and Social Science, 8-12
		Minimum 150 hours required. OPen only to matriculated graduate students who have completed  prerequisites. For description, see SED SO 510. 4cr, 2nd sem. 		

SED SO 509: Student-Teaching Practicum: History and Social Science, 5-8
	Student teaching under joint supervision of a cooperating practitioner and a University representative.  Minimum 300 hours required. 8cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SO 510: Student-Teaching Practicum: History and Social Science, 8-12
	Student teaching under joint supervision of a cooperating practitioner and a University representative.  Minimum 300 hours required. 8cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SO 520: Project Citizen: Promoting Civic Engagement
	Students apply a model of citizen action (Project Citizen) to analyze and influence a current public policy of  their choice. The course also examines how that model can be used to promote active and informed  citizenship among youth and adults. 2cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SO 566: Developing Historical Literacy, 5-12
	Students will investigate the history, subspecialties, pedagogy, and research in history education as related  to historical thinking, literacy, and problem solving. Students will develop competencies in developing and  presenting research-based history lessons. 4cr, either sem.		

SED SO 567: History Laboratory
	History Lab will be held at the Old North Church in the North End of Boston. There, we will explore how   to develop lessons using historic documents, objects, and places. Ideal for those who want to   incorporate authentic historical materials and methods into their classrooms.   Each class will explore an  essential historical question, skill, and/or concept, such as: * History v. the Past: How can the same  object can be interpreted differently in the same time period by  different people; different time periods  for different purposes? * How do you determine "meaning" when the idea transcends the object? * What  does the arrangement of physical space reveal about the individuals who used that space?   Based on  each question, students will use primary and secondary historic sources to 'solve' that  historical  question. Once the question is "solved," the remainder of the class will be devoted to  exploring multiple  ways and instances in which to teach that question, skill, and/or concept. Students  will then practice  teaching these skills and concepts to each other or other volunteers drawn from the  historic site.   This  is a great way to begin to explore or expand your history teaching skills in a really interesting, fun   environment, while learning about one of the great historic sites in Boston. 2cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SO 572: Curriculum and Special Methods for History and Social Science, 5-12
	Reviews traditional and recent curriculum materials in history or social science education for middle,   junior, and senior high school. Analysis of curricular goals for grades 5-12. Development of new teaching   materials and classroom techniques for social studies education at various age levels. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SO 713: Field Experience: Intercultural Education
	Field experience in intercultural education within an educational setting. In most cases, this involves the  development of instructional materials and a research project. 4cr		

SED SO 933: Doc Sem Hist Ed
			

SED SO 935: Advanced Doctoral Seminar in Civic Education and Engagement
	Study of the historical, philosophical, theoretical, and curricular foundations of civic education/education  for democracy. Open to doctoral students, CAGS students, and (with permission) upper-level master's  students intending to pursue doctoral study in history/social studies education. 4cr. alt fall semesters or  by arrangement.		

SED TL 508: Methods of Teaching English as a Second Language (ESL), 5-12
	Teaching methodologies for English as a Second Language at the middle- and high-school levels,  including techniques for developing language skills, content-based language teaching, evaluation and  adaption of materials, planning and assessment. Students participate in a field-based component. 4cr, 1st  sem.		

SED TL 509: Fnds Tesol Ped
	This course description is currently under construction.		

SED TL 511: Methods of Teaching Modern Foreign Languages
		Teaching methodologies for modern foreign language, including techniques for developing language   skills, communicative grammar teaching, evaluation and adaptation of material, planning and curriculum   development, and assessment. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED TL 512: Introduction to Computer-Assisted Language Learning (CALL)
	This course will survey current classroom practices in computer-assisted language learning (CALL),   examine the pedagogical rationale, and give students hands-on practice creating and delivering   computer-based lessons.  Selection, evaluation, and integration of software and online resources will also   be covered. 4cr. 1st sem.		

SED TL 520: Teaching English Language Learners
	Focus on current theory/research related to teaching English language learners and the implications for  effective language, literacy, and content-area assessment and instructional practices in sheltered English  immersion classrooms. Planned for students seeking licensure in Early Childhood, Elementary and Special  Education. 4cr, either sem.		

SED TL 525: Teaching English Language Learners in Middle/High Schools
	Focus on current theory/research related to teaching English language learners and the implications for  effective language, literacy, and content-area assessment and instructional practices in sheltered English  immersion classrooms in middle/high schools. Planned for students seeking licensure in the content areas  at the 5-12 level. 4cr, either sem.		

SED TL 581: Student-Teaching Practicum II: TESOL, Pre-K-6
		Supervised student teaching. Minimum of 150 hours required. Open only to matriculated students who   have completed prerequisites. 2cr, 2nd sem.		

SED TL 582: Student-Teaching Practicum I: ESL, 5-12
		Supervised student teaching. Minimum of 150 hours required. Open only to matriculated students who  have completed prerequisites. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED TL 583: Student-Teaching Practicum II: ESL, 5-12
		Supervised student teaching. Minimum of 150 hours required. Open only to matriculated students who  have completed prerequisites. Can be taken only in conjunction with a Practicum I course. 2cr, 2nd sem.		

SED TL 586: Student-Teaching Practicum I: Modern Foreign Languages, 5-12
		Minimum of 150 hours required. Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed  prerequisites. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED TL 587: Student-Teaching Practicum II: Modern Foreign Languages, 5-12
		Minimum of 150 hours required. Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed  prerequisites. Can be taken only in conjunction with a Practicum I course. 2cr, 2nd sem.		

SED TL 588: Internship/Apprenticeship in Modern Foreign Languages
		Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed prerequisites. Supervised field  experience for students holding professional appointments. Must meet field-of-knowledge requirements  and professional preparation that are equivalent to licensure sequence. Sections indicate grade levels of  certification (Pre-K-8 or 5-12). Variable cr, 2nd sem.		

SED TL 589: Internship/Apprenticeship in TESOL
		Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed prerequisites. Supervised field  experience for students holding professional appointments. Must meet field-of-knowledge and  professional preparation that are equivalent to certification sequence. Sections indicate grade levels of  licensure (Pre-K-8, or 5-12). Variable cr, 2nd sem.		

SED TL 612: Std Tch Dom Std
		This course description is currently under construction.		

SED TL 614: Fldexp Intl Std
	This course description is currently under construction.		

SED TL 635: Introduction to Language Program Management
	This course is designed to introduce students to all aspects of language program management from   academic areas of curriculum planning, student assessment, and program design to the management   topics of finance, organizational behavior, and human resources. 4cr, second sem.		

SED TL 835: Adv Sem Tesol
		This course description is currently under construction.		

