SMG LA 245: Introduction to Law
           			Provides a broad overview of the American judicial system and fundamental legal issues. Examines dispute resolution, torts, contracts, criminal law, business organizations, employment law, intellectual property, and international law. The goal is to understand not only the basic rules of law but also the underlying social policies and ethical dilemmas. 4 cr.		

SMG LA 346: Law and Ethics
           			Explores ideas of right and wrong, and how the law interacts with our morality. Examines contemporary social problems, such as whistle-blowing, business liability for crime, same-sex marriage, affirmative action, and bribery, from the perspective of the law. Also focuses on ethical issues facing businesses, such as leadership in a crisis, prosecution of corporations, and current events. Students read Supreme Court decisions, nonfiction accounts of litigation, and case studies, as well as watch films, in an effort to understand the law and analyze our ethical response to contemporary social issues. 4 cr. 		

SMG LA 349: Intellectual Property, the Internet, and Public Policy
           			Intellectual Property, the Internet, and Public Policy explores the complex  relationship between law and the Internet. Course readings introduce students to  modes of Internet regulation, the legal framework erected in the U.S. to shield  websites from liability for third-party content and conduct, and issues arising  from extraterritorial application of geographic-based law. The course then uses  legal disputes over intellectual property--primarily copyright, but also  trademarks and patents--to illustrate how various stakeholders use lawsuits,  legislation, and other modes of regulation to shape public policy and govern  human behavior. Through research of specific online companies student teams will  study how law affects business decisions, how public policy influences legal  doctrines, and how changes in public policy might alter their target business's  prospects. The course culminates in team papers and presentations that tie each  team's analysis of their target company to the course's major themes.		

SMG LA 355: Employment Law and Public Policy
           			An in-depth look at the legal issues involved in the employer/employee relationship. Such topics include: discrimination, affirmative action, harassment, the hiring process, employee testing, and terminating employees (for cause, layoffs). Discussions will focus on the duties and rights of both parties through the stages of employment, from hiring and managing your workforce, to benefits, conditions of employment, and downsizing.		

SMG LA 360: Real Estate Law
           			Real estate can generate spectacular wealth and contribute to unprecedented financial losses. Real estate is an essential component of every business that requires a physical location to operate. Real estate is where we sleep, where we attend school, where we work, where we play, where we go when we are sick -it quite literally is beneath everything we do. Every real estate transaction begins and ends with legal principles. Mastering the basics of property law puts one in a superior position. Knowledge of real estate law is imperative for those who plan to invest in or manage property on a larger scale. This course provides an overview of real estate law for tenants, present and future property owners, developers, investors, and public policy advocates. We examine the nature of real property and property ownership, residential and commercial real estate transactions, and selected issues of real estate development.		

SMG LA 430: Entertainment Law
           			(Offered in Los Angeles) Covers the basics of entertainment law, including constitutional, contracts, labor, and employment law and intellectual property rights. Students develop a clear understanding of the applicable laws and how these laws have been applied in the past, how they are applied today, and how they might be amended and applied in the future. Students learn applicable legal concepts, practical insights, and an appreciation of how to deal with lawyers and the law in their entertainment business futures. It is intended to provide a good conceptual understanding of the law and demonstrate its relevance through case study, reading, guest speakers, field trips, and intense discussion. The application of the law to the digital now, the digital future and the Internet now crucial, indeed central, to any discussion of entertainment will be included throughout and be the subject of an entire class toward the end of the course. The law to be explored will be constitutional, copyright, trademark, contracts, labor, employment, and remedies and their application to and use within the entertainment business.		

SMG LA 450: Advanced Business Law
           			Takes a closer look at the legal issues surrounding businesses, from purchasing contracts, rights and responsibilities for breaches of those contracts, commercial financing, the Uniform Commercial Code, bankruptcy, products liability, real estate and more. The emphasis is on understanding legal issues as a component of good business planning. Group work to draft contracts and leases and negotiate terms. 		

SMG LA 498: LAW Dir Study
           			Directed study in Law. 2 or 4 cr.  Application available on Undergraduate Program website.		

SMG MK 323: Marketing Management
           			Component of SMG SM 323, The Cross Functional Core. Introduces students to the field of marketing management: analysis, planning and implementation of marketing strategies as the means for achieving an organization's objectives. Students analyze cases and participate in workshops that focus on key marketing management tasks: marketing research, consumer behavior, segmentation and targeting, sales forecasting, product and brand management, distribution channels, pricing, and promotion and advertising strategies. A semester-long business plan project explores the interactions and the cross functional integrations between marketing, operations, information systems, and finance. 4 cr.		

SMG MK 435: Introduction to the Music Business and Music Marketing
           			Survey of the music industry with a focus on understanding of its structure and the intersection of business and music. Discusses key areas of music marketing, including opportunities for musicians, including publicity, advertising, promotion (online and traditional), digital distribution, touring, licensing/synch, and radio.		

SMG MK 445: Consumer Behavior
           			Provides insight into the motivations, influences, and processes underlying consumption behavior. Considers relevant behavioral science theories/frameworks and their usefulness in formulating and evaluating marketing strategies (i.e., segmentation, positioning, product development, pricing, communications). 		

SMG MK 447: Marketing Research
           			Required for Marketing concentrators. Introduces tools and techniques of marketing research as an aid to marketing decision making. Definition of research problems, selection of research methodologies, design of research projects, interpretation of research results, and translation of research results into action. 		

SMG MK 449: Business Marketing
           			Explores in-depth the unique aspects of marketing to business and institutional customers in an increasingly complex, competitive and global marketplace. Exposes students to a wide range of industrial products and services, and the technology, demand, competition, and requirements for success that characterize each of them. Topics include marketing strategy, organizational buyer behavior, business market segmentation, market development, product development, B -to-B e-commerce, pricing, marketing channels, and business marketing communications, in the context of the U.S. as well as global markets. The course is taught through lectures, case discussions, and presentations and is designed to develop the analytical, decision-making, and communication skills of the students. 4 cr.		

SMG MK 463: Services Marketing and Management
           			Covers topics relating to customer service management and focuses on the role of marketing in managing services. Also covered are human resource, information management, operational, and financial overlaps with marketing throughout the course. Focuses on services, though there will be discussion of how services support products as well. Includes an applied service marketing team project for a real organization (for an organization which has requested a student team to address its customer service issues). The final deliverable for this project is a team consulting project for the organization and a final consulting report presentation to the class and the organization's representative(s). 		

SMG MK 465: Retailing and Online Distribution
           			Provides insights into all phases of retail and the inter-dynamics of today's  retail organizations.  It emphasizes the importance of retail strategy, analysis and execution in the retail environment.   Students will examine financial, operations and marketing decisions that are critical to retailers and their success.		

SMG MK 467: International Marketing Management
           			(Also offered in London in the spring semester)  Helps students develop a critical appreciation of both the opportunities and challenges associated with the increasing globalization of markets.  Students will learn about the key environmental forces shaping consumer needs and preferences, the influence of international competition, market segmentation and strategy decisions specific to international marketing.  They will:  * Assess various foreign markets  * Analyze the impact of cultural, social, political and economic factors on marketing strategies  * Determine when to use different market entry and penetration strategies  * Examine the different skills and systems required to implement marketing strategies across country borders 4 cr. 		

SMG MK 468: Advanced Marketing Strategy
           			Provides the insight and skills necessary to formulate and implement sound marketing strategies and marketing plans. The course includes case analysis, guest speakers and a marketing management simulation where students take the role of brand manager. The simulation allows students to make decisions and see results on key topics such as segmentation, positioning, managing a brand portfolio, integrated marketing communications, and marketing channels. Other key topics explored in the course include strategic planning, customer decision making, life cycle, market response, competitive behavior, new product development, and product line management.		

SMG MK 469: Communications and Digital Media Strategies
           			Marketing communication strategy has moved beyond advertising to include    interactive marketing, sales promotions, direct marketing, public relations, and more. This course focuses on developing a marketing communication strategy that    integrates these tools for more efficient and effective communication. Topics    include the establishment of objectives based on a situation analysis,    developing subsequent messages, creative and media strategies, effectiveness    testing, and client/agency relationships.		

SMG MK 470: Pricing Strategy and Tactics
           			Focuses on the practical needs of the marketing manager when making pricing  decisions. Students learn the techniques of strategic analysis necessary to price  more profitably by evaluating the price sensitivity of buyers, determining  relevant costs, anticipating and influencing competitors' pricing, and  formulating an appropriate pricing strategy. 		

SMG MK 486: Digital Marketing Strategy
