GSM MK 852: Marketing Analytics
		This course will focus on developing marketing strategies driven by marketing analytics. Topics covered include market segmentation, targeting, and positioning, new product test marketing, market response models, customer profitability, social media, and marketing resource allocation.  The course will draw on and extend students' understanding of issues related to quantitative analysis and principles of marketing. The course will use a combination of cases, lectures, simulations, and a hands-on project to develop these skills.		

GSM MK 853: Global Strategic Marketing
		This course focuses on the key strategic marketing decisions managers must make: deciding whether to market globally; selecting countries in which to market; choosing marketing strategies and tactics for entry and growth; and organizing for and managing the implementation of global marketing strategies.		

GSM MK 854: Branding
		This is a course about branding, and the ways that brands acquire and sustain  value in the marketplace. Cases, readings, in-class discussions, and  team/individual assignments are designed to provide: An appreciation of the  strategic discipline of branding and its role in creating shareholder value; an  understanding of brands as co-creations of consumers, marketers, and cultures,  and brand management as a collaborative process of meaning management; a sound  foundation in consumer-brand behavior to inform brand decisions; and a capacity  to think creatively and precisely about the strategies and tactics involved in  building, leveraging, defending, and sustaining strong brands. Select topics may  include brand equity, brand (re)positioning, brand relationships, brand loyalty,  brand community, open source branding, branded entertainment and other cultural  branding strategies, internal branding, brand architecture design and portfolio  strategy, brand leverage and extensions, brand metrics, crisis management, and  brand stewardship. A team-based brand planning project or series of data-driven  applications weaves content throughout the course and, when possible, involves a  live client problem. Guest speakers from branding services, consulting, and  practice provide insights throughout the course. While this course has obvious  relevance for those contemplating brand management careers in product or service  markets, it is appropriate for a range of future professionals within for-profit  and not-for-profit C2C and B2B worlds, and others who share a simple passion for  branding.		

GSM MK 859: Business Marketing
		This course provides an in-depth understanding of the unique aspects of  marketing in a business-to-business environment. Students apply current  marketing theory and techniques to industrial market settings. In addition, they  develop managerial skills in the marketing planning and execution process, as  well as critical analysis and problem-solving abilities with respect to  marketing working relationships. The course allows participants to experiment  with and apply strategic marketing concepts in a complex industrial marketing  environment. Topics covered include the dynamics of relationships between  suppliers and customers, the increasing reliance on the marketing-/R&amp;D  interface, the structuring of alliances between so-called competitors, and the  process of negotiations - to better understand how organizations endeavor to  become and stay market-oriented. The course has some guest speakers and an  interactive marketing simulation.		

GSM MK 860: Integrated Marketing Communication
		The purpose of Marketing 860, Integrated Marketing Communication, is to help  students understand the evolution in marketing and communication that is being  created by the shift of technology in new and traditional media.  By becoming  less functionally-driven and more consumer-focused, marketing leaders will begin  to see that 'integration' is more than having a consistent 'look' across all  media platforms and better understand how to develop opportunities via targeted  strategies that align with both customer expectations and business objectives.  This course will focus on IMC - where it's been, where it's going and current  challenges to IMC, including internal functional silos, and traditional  marketing and advertising strategies.  In addition, the class will review the  various new mediums that continue to push marketing communications past  traditional thinking and structures putting it all in perspective through a  course project that will challenge students to put all of these learnings into  perspective.		

GSM MK 862: Marketing High-Tech Products
		This course provides you with a good understanding of how marketing works in a  high-tech context. When it comes to marketing, there are five important  characteristics that make high-tech offerings (products and services) special:  technological uncertainty, customer uncertainty, competitor volatility, high- tech offerings are often used not singly but in larger overall systems, and  high-tech offerings often exhibit network externalities. These five  characteristics have a big impact on the type of challenges, analysis, and  marketing decisions made in high-tech industries. The overall purpose of this  course is to impart concepts, tools, and frameworks that you can apply as you  pursue careers as marketers of high-tech offerings, consultants, investment  bankers, and service professionals. The key objectives of the course are to:   Understand the special challenges involved in marketing high-tech products Learn  how to analyze high-tech marketing problems which involve significant customer,  market, and technological uncertainties; Examine approaches to improve the  market orientation of, and the marketing-R&amp;D interface in, high-tech companies;  Understand the impact of diffusion of technology and adoption of innovation on  targeting and segmentation decisions; Explore the effect of complementary  products, databases, and systems on product and pricing decisions; Identify the  challenges and drivers of success at different stages in a technology's life- cycle; and, Understand the concept of value networks and the role of  complementors, partners, and competitors in high-tech industries.		

GSM MK 867: Marketing Social Change
		Globalization, increasing transparency in business operations and the prevalence  of social media have forever changed the way stakeholders view and interact with  organizations.  Societal and business imperatives are not only often considered  compatible; they can be increasingly viewed as one and the same. People today  often communicate, organize and engage based on mutual interests, and,  generally, place  greater trust in organizations and individuals that work for a  better world. Marketing has often been referred to as the "science of sales."  Whether you are selling a product, an intervention or an idea, it can be a  powerful tool for advancing social change in today's dynamic environment. The  strategic integration of a relevant social purpose into a product, business or  nonprofit organization through brand-building citizenship activities can drive  consumer and donor recall, consideration, acquisition, retention and propensity  to recommend. However, these efforts do not usually constitute a "silver bullet"  and may not be the best solution to a business problem or societal need at all.  In the worst cases, ill-conceived citizenship marketing strategies can result in  damaging consequences.  Practitioners must be pragmatic when engaging in  marketing social change. Understanding how to apply best practice, identify  opportunities, address challenges, engage stakeholders and innovate  strategically are essential skills in this rapidly evolving sector. The purpose  of this course is to provide students with an in-depth understanding of how  marketing principles can be applied to create both short-term and lasting social  change. Students will explore dimensions of the modern landscapes of brand,  corporate and nonprofit "citizenship" and how they relate to marketing. Areas of  study include: cause-related marketing and cause branding; nonprofit branding  and social movements, as well as corporate social responsibility and shared  value creation.		

GSM MK 915: Consumer Behavior II
	   Because firms that excel in developing deep insight into consumer behavior create and capture more value in the marketplace, it is critical for researchers to establish a strong foundation in consumer research.  The present course serves as a companion to the MK914: Seminar in Consumer Behavior I, and considers what some have called ?The Cultural Interpretivist Turn? in Marketing. This perspective calls for a broader conceptualization of the discipline, with greater attention to - phenomena and dynamics at the socio-cultural level, under-leveraged theoretical perspectives beyond psychology and economics, and grounded methodologies capable of situating consumer behavior in the context of people?s lives.  Topics include but are not limited to: Myth and Cultural Narratives; Semiotics; Materialism; Consumer-Brand Relationships; Consumer Socialization; Sub-Cultures of Gender, Lifestyle, Ethnicity, and Social Class; Communities and Tribes; Illicit Pleasures, Addictions, and High Risk Consumption; Politics of Consumption; and Consumer Well-Being. 		

GSM MK 927: Marketing Management and the Customer-Focused Firm
	This course will familiarize doctoral students with various areas of investigation for problem-oriented academic marketing research pertinent to the research mission of the department: advancing the customer-focused firm.  Discussion topics include but are not limited to the following strategies for gaining strategic advantage through the cultivation of marketing relationships: branding and brand equity, pricing, sales, customer relationship management and CRM, consumer-company identification, corporate social responsibility, consumer-to-consumer relationships and brand communities, retailing and customer service, product innovation, and product launch strategy.  Through exposure to a strategic marketing perspective for the identification of research problem areas, this course will further socialize students into the process of developing research ideas and undertaking research, while stimulating the development of ideas for summer projects, qualifying papers, and dissertations.		

GSM OB 712: Leading Organizations and People
	This course introduces you to some fundamental concepts, models and frameworks  to help you become better acquainted with the organizations for which you work,  the teams in which you work, the people with whom you work, and your own  personal development. Specifically, this course considers: 1) how to develop  yourselves as managers, 2) how to work well within teams, 3) how to assess and manage interpersonal dynamics, 4) how to structure more  effective organizations, and 5) how to manage organizational change. Tying all  of these elements together, we will devote particular attention to the traits,  skills and behaviors that are indicative of good leadership and how  organizations and managers can be transformed for better alignment with the  business demands of the future.		

GSM OB 713: Leading Organizations and People
		This course introduces concepts, models and frameworks to help you become better  managers of the organizations you work for, the teams you work in, the people  you work with and your own professional development. Emphasis will be on  behavioral science concepts and research findings related to the major challenge  managers face -- how to organize individuals in order to fulfill the objectives  and strategies of the firm. Topics that will be examined include: the nature and  dynamics of the organization (organizational structure and culture, performance  systems and metrics, reward systems, selection and socialization); the elements  of individual leadership and personal development (power, decision-making,  emotional intelligence, career development, developmental needs, feedback, and  mentoring and coaching); managing change within organizational contexts (the  dynamics and stages of organizational change and the skills and tactics employed  by change agents); and the relationships between the firm and the external  environment in which it operates. The course objective is to provide analytical  skills and strategies, substantive knowledge, and a professional sensibility  that will increase your ability to take effective action.		

GSM OB 815: Career Management &amp; Work-Life Integration
		This seminar will examine major theoretical models and research on the process  of how careers unfold in and out of organizations. It will examine both the more  traditional issues of career dynamics in organizational settings (e.g., internal  labor markets, tournament mobility systems, organizational socialization) as  well as emergent issues of boundary-less, protean, or "free agent" career  processes, such as career transformation, career networks, developmental  relationships, adult development, and emotional competencies. 		

GSM OB 830: Leading the Mission-Driven Organization
	Mission-driven organizations are created in order to accomplish goals that  extend beyond profits for stakeholders and owners. Missions vary, ranging from,  among many others, improving health care, providing meaningful work  opportunities, educating or protecting youth, safeguarding the planet,  eradicating poverty, building sustainable organizations, and enabling  spirituality. Such missions occur in the context of various organizations,  including non-profit and for-profit, philanthropic and religious, public and  private, governmental and non-governmental. This course focuses on leadership  theories, frameworks, and practices that take seriously the nature of workers,  including both professional staff and volunteers, and their reasons for choosing  to work in such organizations. This course is designed to build the capacities  of students to use specific tools related to leadership, conflict, and change  that are particularly useful in leading mission-driven organizations, and enable  them to develop particular insights about specific mission-driven organizations  of interest, related to their effectiveness and capacities for change.		

GSM OB 835: Leading Sustainable Enterprises
	This course is designed to deepen students' appreciation for the leadership challenges and opportunities posed by the emerging realities of a more crowded, interconnected, and increasingly resource constrained globe - a world of unprecedented transparency, increasing consumer and investor power and more NGO (non governmental organizations) oversight than ever before.  Independent of rank within a company, it is certain that managers, leaders and entrepreneurs will meet or be met with issues that were not a part of management lexicon a decade ago.  More specifically, pressures to deliver bottom line results are now compounded by challenges of how such results are delivered.  In order to achieve excellence, managers and leaders of tomorrow must be attuned to the traditional strategic framework for competition, and the context of the ecosystem in which they operate.  Leaders of tomorrow will compete consciously and generatively to improve the lives of stakeholders including: shareholders, consumers, employees, suppliers and the planet.  This course will leverage systems thinking, case studies, debate, discussion, a blog and outside speakers from the world of commerce (e.g. the former CEO of Timberland, founder of QUINN Popcorn) and NGOs (e.g. EDF, TruCost, 1% for the Planet).  The course will blend theory and practice to provide students the context, tools, and frameworks to operate as sustainable stewards and leaders in the global economy.  		

GSM OB 840: Management Consulting Field Project
	The purpose of this course is to provide students with an in-depth understanding  of the management consulting process and its practical application. Students  will explore dimensions of the consulting framework, engagements, work  methodology, client relationship management, value creation, developing and  delivering presentations and client follow-up.  This course requires a series of  interim deliverables contributing toward the final deliverable. This course is  primarily a field-based course supported by lectures, readings, guest speakers  and case discussions.  The course simulates a small consulting firm where you  are the consultant.  By working on a consulting assignment with team members as  well as using your classmates as resources for your project you are gaining the  "real world" experience of working in a small consulting firm.  This class is  designed and best suited for second year students who have 3-5 years work  experience in the public, private or nonprofit sectors. Management consulting  experience is not required though it is helpful.		

GSM OB 841: Fundamentals of Nonprofit Management
		The purpose of this course is to teach students about the distinctive challenges  of managing high-performing organizations in the nonprofit sector. The course  will cover a broad range of topics and it is intended to be a gateway course to  the sector and to potential electives and pathways of future learning. The two  major projects in the semester (one is individual, one in a team) offer students  the chance to choose an area of interest to explore in depth. Other assignments  challenge students to identify and analyze key indicators of nonprofit  performance and to communicate effectively about those issues to selected  stakeholders. A strong grounding in nonprofit accounting and financial  management is extremely valuable and so we devote considerable attention to  those topics. The course also addresses nonprofit marketing, evaluation,  fundraising and revenue generation, growth strategy, impact investing, and the  confluence of charity and commerce. The course is oriented to practice and will  engage experts in the field.		

GSM OB 844: Managing Organizational Change
		Change is crucial for the success and survival of organizations.  Managing  change is central to the role of senior leaders, middle managers, and frontline  supervisors alike; each needs to understand the change process and develop the  skills necessary to engage that process effectively.  This course focuses on  both the knowledge and the set of skills that enable change to be effectively  managed across various organizations and industries.  Students will learn how to  be effective agents of change, in the context of different types of roles--tops,  middles and bottoms--and organizations.  We will explore the nature of both  proactive and reactive change, examining the conditions under which such change  is successful and the skills necessary to ensure that success.  Students will  also have the opportunity to learn about themselves as change agents, in the  context of considering their own tendencies, skills, and capabilities amidst  proactive and reactive change.  The course is particularly appropriate for  students who wish to develop their leadership and consultation capabilities.		

GSM OB 847: Leading High Performance Teams and Project Groups
	This course introduces the challenges of leading and participating in teams and project groups.  It emphasizes the role of leadership in composing teams, motivating members, and creating an environment in which teams and their members grow in capacity over time.  This course will use cases, experiential exercises, and group projects to help students gain both knowledge of team dynamics and the skills to shape them.		

GSM OB 848: The Leadership Challenge
		This course examines the essence of leadership; its relationship to managing; and the behaviors, attitudes and perspectives that distinguish leaders.  Leadership is considered in a variety of ways: leadership in crises, at the top, in the middle, and in groups.  Case studies, students' past experiences, instruments, and other learning activities provide opportunities for students to assess and develop their leadership talents.		

GSM OB 853: Negotiations
		This course uses the theory and research on effective negotiating strategies to build students' understanding of, and skills for, managing differences and negotiation situations.  The course considers, among other topics, the issues of negotiating across functions, between levels, across national and cultural differences, over race and gender differences, and between organizations.  Students examine: 1) problems of influence and self-defense in highly competitive "hardball" negotiations; and 2) the art of using differences for creative problem-solving and "mutual gain" outcomes.  The emphasis is on developing practical skills for effective negotiations that can be applied to concrete situations.  Students should be prepared to learn from their own experiences and practice in this course.		

