GSM SI 870: Strategies for Sustainable Development
		Strategies for Sustainable Development is a broad and far-reaching course in  scope and topics. After an introduction to the concepts of the limits-  to- growth and global sustainability challenges resulting from population growth,    resource scarcity, environmental degradation and climate change students dive    deep into the cultural, societal and economic development issues of    globalization, study the implications of globalization on the current social and    economic development of nations/regions/industries and explore new development    models (for-profit and non-profit entrepreneurship) for sustainable development    at the international, national, and sub-national levels. The Course has three    major themes: 1) The first major theme of the course is a series of country   cases  that explore the cultural, social, political and economic context in   which  business enterprise has historically been conducted. 2) The second major   theme of  the course overlays the international institutions that emerged from   Bretton  Woods; the UN, GATT/WTO, the World Bank and the IMF, (the emerging   World  Environmental Organization, WEO) onto the country cases and explores   emerging  topics of international Intellectual Property Rights (IPR), Corporate   Social  Responsibility (CSR) and International Environmental Protection (IEP).   3) The  third major theme of the course explores the emergence of new models of    sustainable development; contrasting bottoms-ups collective action and    entrepreneurship against classic aid-based models as a force for change and    driver of sustainable development.		

GSM SI 871: Strategies for Bringing Technology to Market
	Strategies for Bringing Technology to Market is a unique course that guides student teams as they undertake commercial go-to-market strategy for scientific and engineering breakthroughs. By collaborating with faculty and graduate students in the University?s research labs and mentors from the business community, teams will assess the economic and social prospects of recent technology innovations, outline the technical and market risks and the key commercial milestones and make recommendations for the most effective commercialization strategy.    Project work is supported by lectures that focus on critical skills required.  Guidance will be provided in assessing critical commercialization milestones by a combination of faculty and mentors from the business community.		

GSM SI 917: Research Seminar in Technology Strategy and Innovation
	This doctoral seminar serves as a survey course to the broad area of technology and innovation management.  We will review and critique a large and diverse body of literature that can be considered "core" to the field.  We will place emphasis on both classic theories and seminal contributions as well as on recent research that builds upon or extends the established theories. One key differentiator of this research seminar is that five professors actively doing research in the field will teach it. While having multiple instructors brings some coordination challenges (these are less critical in doctoral seminars than they are in masters level classes), it has one major advantage: it allows each faculty to lead those sessions that deal with topics of her or his direct research expertise. Students can expect to cover each topic with researchers that have been important contributors to the intellectual debate in the topic they teach.  The seminar will cover key issues in the management of technology and innovation including innovation definitions and patterns (e.g. industry life cycle), entry timing strategies, platforms and standards, networks, dynamic capabilities, organizing for innovation, open and community-based innovation, licensing &amp; patenting, technology diffusion, geography of innovation, and science and innovation policy. SI917 provides a solid base to critically explore many key topics of research in technology and innovation management. It is therefore aimed at doctoral students who plan to do research in technology and innovation management, or those who need a solid exposure to these topics to inform their research in related areas. 		

SMG AC 221: Financial Accounting
           			Basic concepts underlying financial statements and  accounting procedures used in  preparing statements of financial position, income  statements, and statements of  cash flow. Stresses the interpretation, analysis,  and evaluation of published  financial statements. 		

SMG AC 222: Managerial Accounting
           			Sophomore requirement. Introduces the basic principles, methods, and challenges of modern managerial accounting. Covers traditional topics such as job-order costing, cost-volume-profit analysis, budgeting and variance analysis, profitability analysis, relevant costs for decision making, and cost-plus pricing, as well as emerging topics such as Activity-Based Cost (ABC) accounting. The material is examined from the perspective of students preparing to use management accounting information as managers, to support decision making (such as pricing, product mix, sourcing, and technology decisions) and short- and long-term planning, and to measure, evaluate, and reward performance. Emphasizes the relationships between accounting techniques and other organizational activities (such as strategy and motivation).		

SMG AC 347: Intermediate Accounting I
           			Required for Accounting concentrators. Provides foundation for solving financial reporting issues through the study of the conceptual framework of accounting, recognition and measurement of current and non-current assets, revenue recognition, and the development of the income statement and balance sheet.		

SMG AC 348: Interm Acct 2
           			This course description is currently under construction.		

SMG AC 414: Financial Statement Analysis
           			Analysis of corporate financial statements. Includes profitability analysis, liquidity and solvency analysis, the incentives of management in corporate reporting, and the use of accounting information in efficient capital markets.		

SMG AC 430: Accounting Research
           			Develops and practices research skills required of an accounting professional.  Use accounting-related resources to research and understand accounting reporting issues and authoritative guidance for application of GAAP. 		

SMG AC 445: Advanced Managerial Accounting
           			Integrates knowledge from the fields of accounting, economics, and finance to investigate current issues related to management control, financial analysis and valuation, corporate governance, and strategic cost analysis.		

SMG AC 469: Principles of Income Taxation I
           			Federal income tax law common to all taxpayers: individuals, partnerships, and corporations. Tax returns for individuals. Topics include tax accounting, income to be included and excluded in returns, tax deductions, ordinary and capital gains and losses, inventories, installment sales, depreciation, bad debts, and other losses.		

SMG AC 498: Directed Study: Accounting
           			Directed study in Accounting. 2 or 4 cr.  Application available on Undergraduate  Program website.		

SMG AC 541: Advancd Accntng
           			This course description is currently under construction.		

SMG AC 565: Auditing
	Introduces the basic concepts  underlying auditing and assurance services  (including materiality, audit risk, and  evidence) and demonstrates how to apply  those concepts to audit and assurance  services through financial statement  audits.		

SMG AC 579: Principles of Income Taxation II
           			Certain common and special Federal tax laws for individuals, partnerships, corporations, estates, trusts, and miscellaneous entities. Topics include income tax returns for partnerships, business corporations, special corporations, decedents, estates, and trusts. Survey coverage of corporate liquidations, pension and profit-sharing plans, IRS audits, and estate and gift taxes. 		

SMG FE 101: Introduction to Finance
	Required of all SMG freshmen. Pre-req or co-req: SMG SM 131. (2 cr) This course  offers a rigorous overview of principles of finance, such as time value of  money, interest rates, basic valuation of cash flow streams, and basic stock and  bond valuation. It uses a combination of teaching materials including online  problem solving and case writing that will help the student through the  intensive syllabus. FE 101 and the redesigned FE 323 offer a comprehensive  overview of finance to SMG students.		

SMG FE 323: Financial Management
           			Component of SMG SM 323, The Cross Functional Core. Introduces students to the  themes of financial decision making: valuation and risk management. The focus is  on the problems of forecasting, capital budgeting, working capital management,  project risk management, and financing in a cross-functional context. A  semester-long business-plan project explores the interaction between marketing,  operations, management information systems, and finance decisions. The course  compares the financial objectives of the manager and the investor. Introduction  to the time value of money, securities valuation, portfolio diversification, and  the cost of capital. 		

SMG FE 427: International Financial Management
           			Required for International Management concentrators. Managing financial risk in the global environment. Introduction to foreign exchange markets, spot, forward, futures, options and swaps, and to the international bond and money markets. Discussion of market structure and participants, and main financial instruments. Analyzes and discusses tools of currency risk management.		

SMG FE 429: Futures, Options, and Financial Risk Management
           			Covers the theory of futures pricing and option pricing, and applies the theory to develop a framework for analyzing hedging and investment decisions using futures and options. Attention is paid to practical considerations in the use of these instruments, especially in financial risk management. 		

SMG FE 442: Money, Financial Markets, and Economic Activity
           			Required for Finance concentrators. The financial system and its functions. The role of money and the importance of interest rates in determining economic activity; determinants of level of interest rates. Operation of central banks; the goals and instruments of monetary policy. The roles, activities, and risk management of financial institutions. Instruments traded in money and capital markets, and their valuation. Role of derivative securities; systemic risk and other contemporary issues in the financial system		

