SMG MK 487: Branding
           			Explores the art and science of branding, and the strategies through which companies can create, capture, and sustain shareholder value through brands. Through a mixture of theory and real-world cases, the course examines brands from the perspectives of the cultures and consumers who help create them, and the companies who manage them over time. Basic branding disciplines including positioning and repositioning, brand equity measurement, brand leverage, integrated brand communications, brand stewardship, and brand architecture are considered, as are more contemporary topics such as brand parodies, brand community, and branded entertainment. Particular attention is paid to branding challenges associated with today's interconnected, consumer-empowered, and transparent web-enabled world.  4 cr.		

SMG MK 498: Directed Study: Marketing
           			Directed study in Marketing. 2 or 4 cr.  Application available on Undergraduate Program website.		

SMG OB 221: The Dynamics of Leading Organizations
           			Sophomore requirement. This is an experiential learning-based course that studies what people think, feel and do in organizational settings, focusing on individual, interpersonal, group and organizational processes. The primary objective is to help students understand and manage organizational dynamics as effectively as possible. This is done through: analysis of readings; reflecting on hands-on, real-time experiences in organizations and in teamwork here; practice opportunities in class sessions, creative applications and team exercises; and papers written by students and teams. The readings, discussions and lectures provide students with abstract knowledge about organizational behavior processes and structures; the semester-long "OB Team" experiences, working together as an intact team to address real-world problems, will provide skill-building opportunities to help manage one's own and others' behavior in teams and organizations in the future. Major topics include personality, motivation, team dynamics, leadership and organizational change.  SMG students must take concurrently with SM411. 4 cr.		

SMG OB 441: Human Resource Management
           			Required for Organizational Behavior concentrators.  Introduces students to the field of human resource management (HRM). Emphasizes the strategic importance of effective human resource management to the success of any organization. Specific topics covered include: job design and workforce planning, recruiting and selection, training and development, performance management and rewards, employee and labor relations, and retention. Particular attention is paid to the ways in which organizations' strategies and practices around these issues contribute to the strategic objectives of the organization. Individual and group projects enable students to develop skills in making decisions from both the human resource manager's and the general manager's perspectives. 4 cr.		

SMG OB 442: Leading High Performance Teams and Project Groups
           			Provides an opportunity for students to develop an in-depth understanding of creating, leading and maintaining high performance teams - and in particular, project groups that have clearly defined goals and deliverables.  Students will learn to structure and organize high performance teams, develop and practice team interventions, and use teams effectively in organizational contexts. 4 cr.		

SMG OB 444: Managing in a Global Environment
           			Examines the many dimensions of managing people and organizations in a global context. The focus is understanding, leading and managing in an organization that spans multiple countries and regions.  Topics include, managing global systems, processes and procedures,  and valuing and leveraging cultural differences, managing cross-cultural and virtual teams.  In addition students will have the opportunity to structure and engage in real time global projects and interact with managers and leaders from around the world. 4 cr.		

SMG OB 448: Negotiations
           			Focuses on the problems and possibilities of effective negotiations, conflict management, and power and influence at work and in other settings. Emphasizes developing both intellectual knowledge of approaches to negotiation, conflict and organizational influences and practical skills in applying that knowledge to various situations. 4 cr.		

SMG OB 456: Leadership and Management of Social Enterprises
           			A well-managed social enterprise can translate idealism into action.   It can  help create a world that is more sustainable, more compassionate, and more just.   This course will explore the distinctive aspects of launching, leading, and  growing an enterprise -- nonprofit or for-profit -- whose primary goal is social  impact.  We will study mission, strategy, cause marketing, social  entrepreneurship, and scaling.  We will learn that success for social enterprise  is driven less by a compelling story or a charismatic advocate than by diligent  management and insightful leadership.  The course will use a variety of lively  in-class learning activities and assignments, including debates, role plays,  case studies, site visits, and guest experts.  All students will conduct a  research project on a social enterprise of their choice, culminating in a paper  and presentation.		

SMG OB 460: The Leadership Challenge
           			Required for Organizational Behavior concentrators. Explores the nature of leadership in theory and practice with the perspective that leaders are needed at all levels of organizations. The course design is experiential and reflects the idea that leadership skills are built not only from reading and studying leadership theories and cases, but more importantly, from actively engaging in activities that push students to develop new, more effective leadership capabilities. Students are immediately engaged in the real work of leaders through our innovative and exciting leadership challenge initiatives. 4 cr.		

SMG OB 498: Directed Study: Organizational Behavior
           			Directed study in Organizational Behavior. 2 or 4 cr.  Application available on Undergraduate Program website.		

SMG OM 323: Operations Management
           			Component of SMG SM 323, The Cross Functional Core. Focuses on the elements of operations management that are of particular importance in the context of new product development. These include: product and process design, process analysis, supply chain configuration, inventory management, and capacity and production planning. A semester-long business plan explores the interaction between operations management and marketing, information systems, and finance decisions. 4 cr.		

SMG OM 440: Operations Strategy
           			Explores the ability of an organization's operations to satisfy its strategic requirements by investigating the influence of decisions made about the structure capacities, facilities, technology, and vertical integration and infrastructure workforces, quality, production planning and control, and organization of an organization's operations and its capabilities. These decisions are considered in the context of different types of performance improvement plans organizations use: quality management, lean, reengineering, supply chain management, strategic alliances, and performance management. 4 cr.		

SMG OM 441: Operations Analysis
           			Presents tools and modeling frameworks that are relevant to solving today's supply chain problems. The class is a mixture of case discussions, lectures, games, and outside speakers. Case discussions cover subjects including designing new-product supply chains, optimizing inventory levels, quick response, and capacity management. Lectures provide the theoretical foundation for the course; the major subjects are inventory theory and forecasting. Although the course is not overly focused on mathematics, enough detail will be provided so that students can apply the material in practice. Games including the distribution game, the OPT game, and the Beer Game reinforce the concepts in a constructive way. Finally, outside speakers present real-world examples of how supply chain models are being developed in practice. This course is designed for students that will be working in consulting or supply chain management after graduation. For students majoring in areas like Finance or Marketing, it is a solid exposure to an area that is integral to any product-focused company. 4 cr.		

SMG OM 447: Operations Management in Service Sector
           			Introduces students to the special challenges of designing and managing service operations. The course focusses on the problems and opportunities presented by the presence of the customer in the operation which creates and delivers the service; on professional service operations; and on systematic ways to improve performance in service operations. Students carry out a small project developing a new service and the operation which will deliver it. The course demonstrates that a service manager must combine operations, marketing, and human resource skills into an integrated service system general manager approach. The course incorporates the following topics: service strategy, service system design, service quality, professional service operations, improvement programs in services, and multisite service operations. 		

SMG OM 453: Project Management
           			Focuses on project management from two perspectives. First, the course explores management of projects on a day-to-day basis at the functional, operational level, dealing with the management of tasks, resources, risks and timelines within an individual project. The course also covers project management on a more strategic level, program management, which identifies linkages between and among a portfolio of projects at the business unit or firm level. The course covers the tools, techniques, roles, and responsibilities that are critical in managing programs effectively and managing projects to completion.		

SMG OM 465: Improving Quality: Six Sigma Certification
           			Six Sigma quality programs help companies deliver near-perfect products and services. People trained as Six Sigma experts are highly sought after on the job market. This course makes students proficient in Six Sigma including its underlying philosophies, tools (for example, statistical process control), and implementation. This course certifies students as Six Sigma Green Belts and is also designed to prepare students so that when they complete one or more quality improvement projects in a post-BU career, they will be ready to test for a "Black Belt."		

SMG OM 467: Global Supply Management
           			Develops an understanding of the nature of international problems associated with the supply, distribution, and sourcing of products. Issues such as the operational support of market development in foreign countries, international sourcing, country analysis, and the management of supply and distribution activities are covered. A team project is required. 4 cr.		

SMG OM 498: Directed Study in Operations and Technology Management
           			Directed study in Operations and Technology Management. 2 or 4 cr.  Application available on Undergraduate Program website.		

SMG PL 430: The U.S. Healthcare System in Transition
	Prereq: SMG SM 299 or SMG SM131 and FE101, SMG LA 245 and junior standing. Open   to non-SMG students with junior standing and a minor in business with consent of   the instructor. The U.S. healthcare system is undergoing sweeping change as a   result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010.  Knowledge of   how the reform law is affecting healthcare organizations, health professionals,   consumers, and American businesses is essential for everyone, especially those   planning careers in management or business. This rigorous Law and Public Policy   seminar provides an in-depth look at the economic, political and organizational   challenges facing the nation as major reforms are implemented, including the   creation of state health insurance marketplaces, the formation of accountable   care organizations, and new methods of paying hospitals and physicians. Students   read and analyze articles, business cases, issue briefs, and legal opinions from   diverse perspectives to learn how the U.S. healthcare system came to be and how   it will change in the future.		

SMG PL 498: Directed Study in Markets, Public Policy, and Law
