SMG QM 450: Business Analytics
           			Improves students' ability to think logically about and to structure complex managerial problems; and to develop Excel-based spreadsheet models that can be used to significantly improve managerial decision-making. The course is taught almost entirely by example, using problems from the main functional areas of business: Finance, Operations, and Marketing. Students learn about the two main types of modeling approaches: optimization models which can help find the "best" solution, and simulation models which allow explicit consideration of risk trade-offs associated with alternatives. 4 cr.		

SMG SI 422: Strategy and Policy
           			Provides students with a powerful set of tools which will prepare them to analyze, formulate, and implement business firm strategy with the aim of attaining sustainable competitive advantage. Adopts the perspective of the general manager, challenging student knowledge in each functional area in the effort to create integrative strategies that serve the needs of shareholders, as well as other stakeholders inside and outside the company. The course includes conceptual readings, which elucidate the fundamental concepts and frameworks of strategic management, as well as case analyses, which enable students to apply their knowledge to real-world situations and managerial decisions. The course culminates with a final project, which requires student teams to perform a complete strategic analysis on a public company, considering its industry environment and dynamics, its strategic positioning and internal resources, and proposing a course of action for the firm to respond to its strategic challenges. 4 cr.		

SMG SI 430: The Multidisciplinary Sustainable Energy Practicum
           			Pre-reqs: SMG SM131 or SM121/122 or SM299; CAS GE150; ENG EK225.  Required course for the Undergraduate Minor in Sustainable Energy. Serves as the capstone project providing students with a multidisciplinary experience that applies ALL three disciplines on the Undergraduate Minor in Sustainable Energy, i.e. Business, Environmental Sciences and Engineering. The practicum is offered in conjunction with a "sponsoring company" to provide students with a hands-on experience with a real-world sustainable energy project. 4 cr.		

SMG SI 435: Entertainment Management
           			(Offered in Los Angeles) Surveys the application of management concepts and principles to the film, television, video, new media and music industry. This course examines administration and finance, development, production, and distribution, and introduces students to the organizations and people (such as studios, independent production companies, talent managers, and agents) who manage, invest, and eventually profit in this creative industry. Much of the class time is spent in discussion of current entertainment industry trends. Students gain the skills to achieve their own entertainment goals. 4 cr.  		

SMG SI 438: Talent Representation and Management
           			(Offered in Los Angeles) Using case studies and business models, students examine the manner in which critical players interact and attempt to work together in behalf of clients in an effort to make their "professional dreams" come to fruition. Participants will gain an understanding of the different areas of talent representation, how each one functions in the scope of a talent's career and what the responsibilities are for each position in each area of representation. Participants will also gain a clear view of what the business of Entertainment Representation has to offer as a chosen career. 4 cr.		

SMG SI 444: Entrepreneurship
           			Addresses the specifics of planning a business startup or expanding and altering an existing small business, including the feasibility of ideas, market definition, management, and operations and financing requirements. This is a hands-on, experiential learning course requiring integration of previous coursework into a coherent, realistic business plan. Helps students assess and develop their own particular idea and to consider the appropriateness for them of entrepreneurship as a career choice. 4 cr.		

SMG SI 445: Small Business Management
           			Designed to help students understand the intricacies of running a small company. The course addresses the major problem areas in smaller companies, including valuation, negotiation, deal structure, personnel and compensation, and marketing and financing. Exposes students to a wide range of business activities, emphasizing significant differences between large and small enterprises. The course uses a competitive computer simulation to provide students with the opportunity to "run" their own business. 4 cr.		

SMG SI 451: Organizing for Design and Innovation
           			This course examines how managers and leaders can create the conditions for innovation at the individual, team and organizational levels and how those conditions differ for startup and mature organizations. Managing innovation includes the generation of ideas; the integration of those ideas into new product concepts; and the commercialization of those ideas. While core strategy courses address the questions of what innovations to pursue and whether and when those innovations will bring value, this course addresses the question of how managers can create organizations to deliver sustainable innovations of value. 4 credits.  (Spring 2011 pilot course)		

SMG SI 453: Strategies for Environmental Sustainability
	Can firms increase both environmental performance and profitability? Sometimes,  but not always. In this course, we consider how and when firms can respond  to growing demands for improved environmental performance and disclosure (from  customers, NGO, activists, and regulators) in a way that also improves the long  term financial performance of the firm. Through case studies and current news  articles across a variety of contexts (consumer products, food services, energy  service companies, and renewable energy), mini-lectures, and a team project  working with the BU Sustainability Office, this course provides exposure to many  topics related to sustainability and provides hands-on experience with the  analytical tools and thinking required to evaluate the business case for  sustainability.		

SMG SI 469: Real Estate Development
           			Real estate development is a process rather than a product. Too often, assumptions about occupancy, market absorption, rental income growth, valuation and competition are based on guesswork and interest in specific product types. The course reviews the underlying demographic market data that drives demand; utilizing data such as population and job growth, market and marketability analysis. The focus then shifts to site selection and feasibility analysis, the available methods of gaining site control and the process of assembling the professional team. Later, the course reviews the regulatory control process, along with budgeting and contract award and review of the construction control processes. The course is introductory in nature and assumes students have little or no knowledge about the development process. 4 cr.		

SMG SI 471: International Entrepreneurship
           			Designed for students who may at some point be interested in pursuing managerial careers in the international entrepreneurial sector, and covers the development of skills to identify, evaluate, start, and manage ventures that are international in scope. Over the course of the semester, the class "travels" to more than fifteen countries on five continents, and analyze operations at each stage of the entrepreneurial process. The course covers market entry, forming alliances, negotiations, managing growth, and cross-border financing. Support from local governments, and the cultural, ethical, legal, and human resource issues facing the entrepreneur is also covered. 4 cr.		

SMG SI 480: The Business of Technology Innovation
	Open only to seniors and juniors in the College of Engineering. SMG students cannot take this course for degree credit. Provides an introduction to entrepreneurship and business for the engineer. Topics include finding business ideas; recognizing good from bad; understanding the importance of business model; turning technology into a business, including what to sell and how to sell it; the role of engineering within a business; business financial statements; and startups and venture capital, including starting a company or joining a startup. 4 cr.		

SMG SI 482: Strategy for Technology-Based Firms
           			Serves SMG students concentrating in entrepreneurship or who are interested in high-technology sectors, and ENG students who have taken SMG SI480. This course covers technology life-cycles, the co-evolution of industries and technologies, strategies for commercialization of new technologies (appropriability, acquiring complementary assets and capabilities, managing technical teams, and impact of regulatory and other environmental factors on commercialization). Special emphasis is placed on joint learning and interdisciplinary teamwork by students across ENG and SMG. 4 cr.		

SMG SI 498: Directed Study in Strategy and Innovation
           			Directed study in Strategy and Innovation. 2 or 4 cr.  Application available on Undergraduate Program website.		

SMG SM 108: Career Management Seminar I
	SMG freshmen only. Required for all SMG freshmen. Provides an overview of  individual career management. It is the first course in a School of Management  yearly progression designed to equip students with the necessary knowledge, tools,  and skills needed to explore career opportunities and build a foundation of career  management capabilities.  Students will also develop an SMG-approved resume.		

SMG SM 131: Business, Society, and Ethics
	Required of all SMG freshmen. Students will explore the ethical problems facing  global management. Through identification and discussion of the substantive  disciplines relevant to business, students will uncover a complicated analysis  necessary to make appropriate decisions and will highlight their  interdependencies. This course stresses written and oral communication skills  and logical reasoning as an ingredient for sound analysis and rational business  planning. The course stresses teamwork because at the heart of modern management  is the need to collaborate with others and to organize, motivate, and monitor  teams of diverse people to accomplish shared goals. 4 cr.		

SMG SM 151: Creating Value in the Global Economy
           			Prereq: SM131; SMG students only. Required of all SMG freshmen. Designed to  provide deep immersion into the forces shaping the new global economy while  providing students with a platform from which to practice the critical business  skills of writing, oral presentation and persuasion. Using the World Economic  Forum as a backdrop, student will engage in independent inquiry, writing and  debate focused on the digital technology, social enterprise and sustainability  and health and life sciences sectors of the new economy. Through in-class  discussion, lecture and small group work students will become familiar with the  concepts of value creation and stakeholder theory and develop integrative,  critical thinking and persuasion skills. 2 cr.		

SMG SM 208: Career Management Seminar II
	SMG sophomores only. Taken concurrently by SMG sophomores with SMG OB 221.  Builds upon SM 108 to provide students with fundamental tools to assist them  with individual career management.  It is the second course in the School of  Management's four year career management curriculum.  Importantly, as  sophomores, students will begin to chart their career path, work with The Feld  Career Center (FCC), practice interviewing, develop a search strategy, and  continue to build their personal "brand."  		

SMG SM 209: Career Management Seminar II (Intensive)
	For students who did not begin as SMG freshmen.  Combines the content of SM 108  and SM 208.  Provides an overview of individual career management. Equips  students with the necessary knowledge, tools, and skills needed to build a  foundation of career management capabilities.  Students will begin to chart  their career path, work with the Feld Career Center (FCC), practice  interviewing, develop a search strategy, and continue to build their personal  "brand."		

SMG SM 221: Probabilistic and Statistical Decision Making for Management
           			Exposes students to the fundamentals of probability, decision analysis, and  statistics, and their application to business. Topics include probability,  decision analysis, distributions, sampling, estimation, hypothesis testing, and  chi-square. Please note: Students may not receive credit for both SMG SM 221 and  CAS EC 305, or SMG SM 221 and CAS EC 203. 		

