SAR OT 520: Evidence-Based Practice I
		The first course in a sequence designed to develop knowledge and skills for using scientific evidence in clinical decision-making. The course focuses particularly on analysis and application of descriptive, relational, and qualitative research evidence.		

SAR OT 524: Introduction to the OT Process
		This course is designed to introduce students to the Occupational Therapy process as described in the OT Practice Frameworks II. The course is organized around the "Paired Cooperative Learning" (PCL) experience. This is a collaborative student relationship designed to provide a practical context for developing skills in evaluation, planning, implementing, and documenting client-centered, occupation and evidence-based occupational therapy assessment and intervention. Students will learn to apply theory to the OT Process in developing and implementing intervention. Professional topics related to therapeutic use of self, interviewing, clinical reasoning, use of theory to guide practice, professional development and wellness-oriented practice are addressed. Course principles are applied to all areas of OT practice.		

SAR OT 526: Functional Movement: Analysis and Assessment
           			This occupational therapy course examines changes in gross and fine movement skills across the life course, and the relation of these changes to occupational performance.  In addition, students learn biomechanical, ecological systems, and dynamical systems' principles underlying human movement and their application to functional activities including seating, transfers, and mobility.  Principles covered in lecture are applied through practical experiences and discussions during the application sessions.		

SAR OT 529: Occupation Across the Life Course
           			This course examines current theory and research related to the development of human occupation throughout the life course. Human development is viewed from occupation-based and ecological perspectives, emphasizing the inextricable links among person, environment, and occupation. The performance of activities of daily living, instrumental activities of daily living, work/education, play/leisure, and social participation, especially as potentially affected by health and disability, will be examined across the life course. Students are required to observe, interpret, and describe occupational performance, and to apply relevant theories and constructs to understand the development of human occupation. Students will begin to develop a base of knowledge about different types, administration, and interpretation of assessment methods and measures.		

SAR OT 530: Occupation Based Practice with Groups
		This Level I Fieldwork Practicum and Integrative Seminar in Occupational Therapy is the culminating course in a four-semester course sequence. It is designed to enhance clinical reasoning by integrating knowledge and skills from current and previous courses with a weekly fieldwork experience. Students use principles of program development, needs assessment, group intervention planning and implementation, along with theory and research evidence, to design and co-lead occupation-centered groups in a variety of practice settings and contexts with child, adult and elder populations. Readings, independent learning, and group supervision are combined with assignments specific to planning and leading a group. Class participation and independent learning are an essential aspect of this course.		

SAR OT 538: Assistive Technology
		This course provides a lecture and laboratory-based introduction on the use of assistive technologies and related issues, such as funding and legislation. It is designed to provide a basic understanding of various types of technologies, assessment procedures, user populations, environments, and the impact of assistive technology on occupation. 		

SAR OT 556: Neuroscience for Occupational Therapy
           			In this foundation neuroscience course, the student will be presented with topics including histology of the central nervous system, gross anatomy and organization of the central nervous system, cross-sectional anatomy of the brainstem and spinal cord, autonomic nervous system anatomy and function, ascending sensory pathways, descending motor pathways, cranial nerves: location, fibers course and function, vasculature of the brain, brainstem, and spinal cord, visual system, vestibular system, auditory system, cerebellum, basal ganglia, cerebral cortical structure and function, limbic system: learning and memory, and development and normal aging of the nervous system. In addition to an in depth discussion of the neuroanatomy of each of the above systems and structures, each topic will have an applied component in which students will investigate the impact of these systems and structures on function. Students will be presented with case studies in class and in the lab portion of the course which reinforce the clinical application of the course topics. In lab, students will also conduct exercises related to the testing of neurological function and investigate neuranaotmic structures using brain atlases and images.		

SAR OT 562: Learning and Behavior Change
           			This course examines interdisciplinary theories of learning and behavior change that underlie current OT theories and practice. The course explores the impact of various clinical conditions and cognitive function on learning and behavior change. The course provides foundation knowledge underlying occupational therapy theories and frames of reference.   		

SAR OT 563: Context and Occupational Performance
           			This graduate course in occupational therapy is designed to be taken concurrently with two other complementary courses: OT 564 and OT 503. This course focuses on knowledge and resources needed for effective clinical reasoning about occupation-based evaluation and intervention. Topics covered include diagnostic conditions and disorders, practice contexts/environments, models and theories of practice, research evidence, healthcare/education regulations and policies, and interdisciplinary practitioner roles.  Content is applied particularly to individuals living with long-term conditions who are most likely to benefit from compensatory and adaptive interventions to enable performance of meaningful occupations such as ADL/IADLs, work, education, play, leisure, and social participation. Classes consist primarily of lectures, group discussions, audiovisual presentations, and case study discussions.  A high level of self-directed learning is expected.		

SAR OT 564: Skills for Occupation Based Practice I
           			This companion course to OT563 Context and OT502 Integrative Seminar III emphasizes the development of assessment and intervention skills for working with individuals living with long-term conditions likely to benefit from compensatory and adaptive strategies. Students will have opportunity for hands-on practice in selecting, administering, and interpreting assessments, as well as choosing and implementing occupation-based interventions. Best practice is promoted by requiring students to support their assessment and intervention choices through theoretical and empirical evidence.		

SAR OT 565: Skills for Occupation Based Practice II
           			This companion course to OT566 Client Factors emphasizes the development of assessment and intervention skills for working with individuals living with conditions likely to benefit from remedial interventions directed toward performance skills and client factors. Students will have opportunity for hands-on practice in selecting, administering, and interpreting assessments, as well as choosing and implementing interventions. Best practice is promoted by requiring students to support their assessment and intervention choices through theoretical and empirical evidence. 		

SAR OT 566: Client Factors and Occupational Performance
           			This graduate course in occupational therapy is designed to be taken concurrently with two other complementary courses: OT 565 (Skills for Occupation Based Practice 2) and OT 586( Professional Service Management).  This component of the course sequence focuses on knowledge and resources needed for effective clinical reasoning about occupation-based evaluation and intervention for the Biomechanical and Neurorehabilitation theoretical perspectives. Topics covered included diagnostic conditions and disorders, theoretical perspectives, research evidence, and practice contexts/environments. Content is applied to individuals living with chronic conditions who are most likely to benefit from remediation interventions to enable performance of meaningful occupations, e.g., ADLs/IADLs, work, education, play, leisure, rest and sleep, and social participation.  Classes will consist primarily of lectures, group discussions, audiovisual presentations, and case study discussions. Considerable self-directed learning is expected.		

SAR OT 570: Special Topics in Occupational Therapy
		Advanced study in a selected area of occupational therapy theory or practice. Specific topic announced in the semester offered. Seminar and/or supervised laboratory study as appropriate to the particular topic.		

SAR OT 586: Professional Service Management
		This required graduate course provides a fundamental, critical overview of health care management principles. Detailed discussions, teamwork, practical case study experiences, as well as oral and written assignments will guide the soon-to-be entry-level occupational therapist to effectively manage people and resources, and to understand political, regulatory, economic, and social forces that are affecting a constantly changing and often complex health and rehabilitation environment. Major emphasis is on advocacy and legislation, reimbursement, financial planning, personnel management, leadership, negotiation skills, conflict resolution, ethics, grant writing, starting up a new program, business or practice, entrepreneurship, and marketing.		

SAR OT 589: Orientation to Practice
           			This graduate course in occupational therapy is designed to orient and introduce students to current and emerging areas of practice. Guest faculty and practitioners will share their experience and expertise for various areas of practice to aid students in understanding the typical contexts of fieldwork experiences that will be an integral part of the curriculum. This course is intended to introduce students to common types of client populations across the lifespan and typical interventions and goals for areas of practice addressing mental health, pediatrics, and physical disabilities occupational needs and services. Goals, guidelines, policies and procedures for participating in the academic program's Level I (LIFW) and Level II (LIIFW) fieldwork programs will be reviewed.  Training in confidentiality/privacy laws will be provided to support students in abiding by professional ethics and behaviors. Additionally, opportunities for professional development within and outside of the University will be highlighted. 		

SAR OT 590: Fieldwork Seminar/Field Experience Fee
		Fee is equal to the cost of two credits. The Fieldwork Seminar is for students completing the didactic coursework in the program.  Topics preparing for the transition from the academic setting to the practice setting, program policies and procedures, criteria for evaluating student performance, supervision issues, fieldwork experience responsibilities and information on certification, licensure and the job search.		

SAR OT 593: Level II Fieldwork I
		Full-time, on-site clinical experience. 		

SAR OT 594: Level II Fieldwork II
		Full-time, on-site clinical experience. 		

SAR OT 595: Level II Elective Fieldwork
