SAR OT 617: Contemporary Trends in Occupational Therapy
		This on-line graduate course examines three important current topics of discussion in occupational therapy. The first theme is client-centered practice: What is contemporary thinking about this principle and how does my practice reflect this principle? The second theme is occupation-centered practice: What does it mean to have occupation as the core focus of practice and what are current challenges to keeping this focus? The third theme is looking outward: How do the concerns of occupational therapy relate to work emerging in other fields and where might we find knowledge to enhance our practice, or collaborators who share similar concerns and values? The course assignments are designed to facilitate critical reflection on the student's own practice in relation to these developments.		

SAR OT 620: Evidence-Based OT Practice II
		This second course in the evidence-based practice sequence focuses on critical analysis of research on intervention effectiveness. Students examine issues of internal, external, and statistical validity as they relate to the appropriate use of evidence for clinical decision-making.		

SAR OT 621: Evidence-Based OT Practice III
           			This is the third course in a sequence that develops skills and knowledge for evidence-based occupational therapy practice. The course focuses on generating evidence for one's own practice. The course introduces students to methods to examine generating group level (program evaluation) individual outcomes (single subject design).		

SAR OT 713: Developmental Disabilities I: Evaluation, Assessment, Families and Systems
	This interdisciplinary course addresses issues relevant to professionals who work with people with developmental disabilities, their families, and the human service system.  Understanding the professionals' role in diagnosing, evaluating and assessing children who have developmental disabilities or who are at high risk of acquiring them will be the emphasis for the first half of the semester.  Specific discussions of families and services will highlight the second half of the term.  This course is offered in collaboration with six area universities and colleges and meets off-campus at the Children's Hospital.		

SAR OT 714: Developmental Disabilities II: Values, Policy and Change
	This course focuses on the community, system and leadership components of developmental disabilities and is based on values of enhancing the quality of life of individuals with disabilities.  Issues of systems change and  policy implications are stressed while understanding disabilities for the persons' and families' perspective are maintained.  This course is offered in collaboration with six area universities and colleges and meets off-campus at the Children's Hospital.		

SAR OT 736: Independent Study
		Individually supervised study for advanced students wishing to pursue a specialized area of interest in occupational therapy.		

SAR OT 900: Scholar Project I
		This on-line graduate course gives students the opportunity to apply the skills developed in the first two evidence-based practice courses Evidence Based Practice (EBP) and Directed Study in Evidence Based Practice: to investigate an intervention question related to their own practice. Students will conduct an in-depth search for evidence, analysis of best evidence, and the outline of a synthesis that proposes the current, "best answer" to the clinical question posed. Students will work as partners to provide assistance, guidance, and feedback to each other during this structured process. 		

SAR OT 901: Scholarly Paper II
		This on-line graduate course completes the work begun in Scholarly Paper I. The specific emphasis of work in this course is on preparing evidence summaries in different formats that are suitable for client/consumer, management, and peer audiences. 		

SAR OT 904: Thesis Proposal Development
           			Under the guidance of a faculty mentor, the student develops a written research proposal.		

SAR OT 910: Social Policy and Disability
		This on-line graduate case-based course examines current models of and perspectives on disability and their influence on social policy. The history of disability policy is examined as well as the ways in which social, medical, and universal models are manifest in current health and social service delivery systems in the US and other developed countries. The course also examines cultural assumptions about the nature of health, disability, and quality of life and the implications of cultural differences for practice models and methods.  		

SAR OT 911: Practicum in Social Policy and Disability
		This on-line graduate course engages students in the critical analysis of policy and disability theory in their major area of practice (e.g., ergonomics, medical rehabilitation, early intervention, mental health services). They must complete critical reviews of additional reading related to their specific field of application as well as a sequence of analyses of the impact of relevant policies on resource allocations, service delivery methods, and reimbursement. 		

SAR OT 915: Evaluating Clinical Theory and Research
	This course is designed to help students think critically about the ways in which theories and models are used to guide clinical practice. In particular, we will examine the distinction between models of function and disablement and theories of how change occurs as a result of intervention, as well as how these models may or may not be related.  We will examine how theories and models describe or explain a phenomenon at different levels of analysis and the types of scientific evidence required to support or refute the propositions reflected in clinical models and theories. The course is limited to students in the OTD program and is offered exclusively on-line. 		

SAR OT 916: Practicum in Theory Analysis
	This course builds on OT 915: Evaluating Clinical Theory and Research. Students examine the contrasting views of mechanistic, organismic, and contextual models, and contemporary expressions of these approaches in the clinical theories. The course investigates explanatory models of change through a critical examination of the theoretical bases of intervention approaches in occupational therapy. Students examine in depth a theory relevant to their doctoral project. The course is limited to students in the OTD program who have completed OT 915. It is offered exclusively on-line. 		

SAR OT 920: Outcomes Measurement and Monitoring I: Program Evaluation
		This on-line graduate course examines quantitative and qualitative methods developed for systematic program evaluation, providing the foundation knowledge and skills needed to complete an evaluation plan for the Doctoral Project. Examples of program evaluations from the clinical literature are examined and their applicability to programs in the student's area of clinical practice evaluated. 		

SAR OT 921: Outcomes Measurement and Monitoring II: Individual Client Monitoring
		This on-line graduate course builds on methods introduced during the foundation courses on evidence-based practice to develop skill in the application of quantitative methods of outcome evaluation for individual clients. These methods include client surveys, performance assessments, continuous performance monitoring, and single-subject designs. The course prepares the student to identify and/or create appropriate methods to evaluate individual results for the evaluation plan for his or her Doctoral Project. 		

SAR OT 925: Capstone
		This on-line graduate Capstone course is the final course in the post-professional OTD program. This course also includes a two-day, on-campus stay at Boston University. Students will prepare for and deliver a 45-minute presentation on their doctoral project to an invited audience from the greater Boston community. After receiving written faculty feedback from this presentation, students will formulate a written response with modifications, and/or counter-argument; and prepare a final version of the proposal that is suitable for professional dissemination. 		

SAR OT 930: Doctoral Project
		This is an on-line graduate course in the post-professional OTD program. Concurrent with each full semester (fall, spring, summer) in the OTD program, students register for one credit of the Doctoral Project. In the fourth semester of the program, students register for 3 credits of the Doctoral Project course. The Doctoral Project is organized around the student's proposed innovation in practice. It is in the form of a series of qualifying tasks, each of which represents a critical phase of the proposal. Guidance in the doctoral project will be through a combination of three elements: Faculty advising and mentorship, peer mentorship and a.Circle of Advisors composed of a minimum of two professionals with content expertise in the doctoral project. The project outcomes include: Description of a short-coming, gap or specific need in the student's area of practice; compilation of a theoretical and evidence base to support the proposed project; description of the proposed program; evaluation plan; funding plan; dissemination plan; executive summary and Fact Sheet. (1 credit each full semester until completed, 3 credits in the final semester - a minimum of 6 credits)		

SAR OT 990: OTD Independent Study
		Continuation of the on-line doctoral project for OTD students who need additional semesters beyond the 6 credits of OT 930 to complete their doctoral project.		

SAR PT 200: Introduction to Physical Therapy
	This course is intended for students who are interested in understanding the profession of physical therapy.  The course provides an overview of the field of physical therapy and will introduce the student to a variety of diagnoses and settings where physical therapy is provided.  Students who are considering a career in physical therapy are encouraged to take this course to gain a deeper understanding of the profession prior to applying to the program.    		

SAR PT 341: Preclinical Experience
	The observation experience helps students to confirm their choice of Physical Therapy as a major, better understand the profession, and gain insight into the communication, knowledge base, and technical skills that successful physical therapist clinicians demonstrate. Sign up for this no credit, P/F required course, the semester that you intend to complete the 30 hours of observation in a health care setting that provides physical therapy. Completion of the observation hours, a reflection paper and a group discussion are required to complete the experience.		

