SAR PT 490: Ind Study Pt
			

SAR PT 511: Cardiovascular and Pulmonary System I
           			This course reviews the anatomy and physiology of the cardiopulmonary system.  This course will highlight the adult and pediatric dysfunctions of the cardiopulmonary system, medical and surgical care of this patient population, and the appropriate physical therapy interventions.  Emphasis is placed on patient evaluation, medical assessment, treatment planning, and the performance of the appropriate procedures.  In addition, patient compliance issues, ethical and legal aspects of physical therapy care, and the health care professional's own cardiopulmonary function will be addressed.  Current research will be introduced throughout the course as appropriate.		

SAR PT 512: Cardiovascular and Pulmonary System II
           			This course is designed to expand the student's knowledge of cardiovascular and pulmonary systems as well as cardiovascular and pulmonary physical therapy.  The student will gain an in-depth understanding of physical therapy examination, intervention, and management of peripheral vascular disease, wound care, prosthetic management for amputations, and cardiopulmonary disease.  Laboratory sessions will facilitate the students understanding of lecture material and provide them with hands on physical therapy skills needed to care for patients with the above disorders. Current literature will be the basis for all lecture and lab sessions.		

SAR PT 521: Musculoskeletal System I
           			This course is the first in a series of three for the musculoskeletal system.  It is designed to provide the student with the necessary skills for prevention, examination, evaluation, and intervention of musculoskeletal impairments of posture and the upper extremity joints.  The student will learn a systems approach to patient care.  Specifically, this course will teach the student how to determine which impairments are related to specific functional limitations and disabilities of the individual with upper extremity disorders.  It will consider upper extremity impairments throughout the life span, as well as throughout the natural history (acute through chronic) of the problem. An eclectic approach to interventions will be stressed.		

SAR PT 522: Musculoskeletal System II
           			This course is the second in a series of 3 for the musculoskeletal systems.  It is designed to provide the student with the necessary skills for prevention, examination, evaluation, and intervention of musculoskeletal disorders of the lower extremities.  The student will build upon the systems approach to patient care.  Specifically, this course will teach the student how to determine which impairments are related to specific functional limitations and disabilities of the individual with lower extremity disorders. It will consider lower extremity disorders throughout the life span, as well as throughout the natural history (acute through chronic) of the problem. An eclectic approach to interventions will be stressed.  Laboratory sessions will develop the student's skills in examination and intervention techniques to address lower extremity musculoskeletal disorders.		

SAR PT 550: Scientific Basis of Human Movement
           			This course provides an overview of current theory and data that address the question of how humans select, perform, and learn skilled actions. Students will learn to apply basic principles of sensorimotor coordination and control to physical therapy evaluation and intervention planning, and learn how these principles can be used to guide treatment of dysfunctional movements, regardless of the type of underlying disease/injury, impairment, activity limitation or participation restriction. Emphasis will be placed on: (1) understanding how movements emerge from the interaction of individual, task, and environmental constraints; and (2) understanding the resources that the individual brings to any given skilled action (biomechanical, neuromuscular, sensory, cognitive and cardiopulmonary systems). The basic systems approach proposed by Bernstein for an adequate motor control theory will be used as a way to critique theories currently used as a basis for physical therapy, and to introduce the concepts of system constraints and of dynamical systems theory. The ways in which the constraints/dynamics approach can be integrated with the disablement model adopted by the APTA in its clinical practice guidelines (the World Health Organization's ICF model) will be identified. The results will allow the student to gain insight into how to conceptualize a holistic model of the factors that influence the patient's behavior, identify causes of problems, and learn a thought process for evaluation and treatment.		

SAR PT 551: Neuroscience for Physical Therapy Students
           			This course is designed to serve as an introduction to the normal development and function of the nervous system. It is assumed that you have a basic understanding of anatomy &amp; physiology (e.g. cell structure, ionic exchange, and action potentials). This is a basic science course that serves as a building block for successive clinical courses.		

SAR PT 555: Integrated Clinical Experience I
           			This is the first in a series of two courses which will integrate course content taught in the DPT curriculum with clinical experiences, incorporating all components of the patient/client management model.  Through review of patient records, patient interviews, and examination and treatment of non-complex patients or diagnoses, students will develop skills in the process of clinical decision making, obtaining patient data, and treatment progression. This course will be closely aligned with concomitant academic preparation to enable students to practice recently learned skills in a clinical environment. Additionally, the student will begin to understand clinical teaching, the role of the PT in relation to other health care providers, and issues involved in the delivery of physical therapy, including professionalism, interpersonal skills, communication, and law and ethics.		

SAR PT 565: Integrated Clinical Experience II
           			This is the second in a series of two courses which will continue to integrate course content taught in the DPT curriculum with clinical experiences incorporating all components of the patient/client management model.  Through review of patient records, patient interviews, and observation and treatment of non-complex patients or diagnoses, students will develop skills in the process of clinical decision making, obtaining patient data, and treatment progression. This course will be closely aligned with concomitant academic preparation to enable students to practice recently learned skills in a clinical environment. Additionally, the student will begin to understand clinical teaching, the role of the PT in relation to other health care providers, and issues involved in the delivery of physical therapy, including professionalism, interpersonal skills, communication, and law and ethics.		

SAR PT 623: Musculoskeletal System III
           			This course is designed to provide the student with the necessary skills for prevention, examination, evaluation, and intervention of musculoskeletal disorders of the spine and TM joints.  It is the third in a series of musculoskeletal based classes and will complete the required musculoskeletal content of the PT program. The student will learn an evidence-based and systems approach to patient care.  Specifically, this course will teach the student how to determine which impairments are related to specific functional limitations and disabilities of the individual with spinal disorders.  It will consider spinal impairments throughout the life span as well as throughout the natural history of the problem. An eclectic approach to interventions will be stressed along with current literature findings.		

SAR PT 634: Diagnostic Procedures for Rehabilitation Professionals
           			This course will identify and describe various modes of imaging techniques and tests used in medical practice for the neuromusculoskeletal, cardiovascular, and pulmonary systems.  The process of diagnosis in the context of the physical therapist's practice will be discussed.  Identification of basic radiological pathology and tests results that directly impact physical therapy care and prognostication will be emphasized, as well as integration of test/imaging results in the physical therapy evaluation and plan of care.  Correlation of test results with clinical examination findings will be emphasized to allow the student to engage in professional dialogue with other health care providers, including collaboration with radiologists.  Diagnostic procedures covered in the course will include but not be limited to: X-ray, CT scan, MRI, bone scan, fluoroscopy, PET, SPECT, EMG/NCV, ECG, echocardiogram, thallium scan, exercise testing, cardiac catheterization, angiogram, MRA, CBC, electrolytes, lipid profiles, cardiac enzymes, and oncology markers.		

SAR PT 652: Neurological System I
           			The purpose of this course is to provide the students with a foundation for examining, evaluating, and determining appropriate interventions for individuals who have movement dysfunction secondary to neurological deficits.  Students will learn the key elements of the neurological examination and its basis in functional neuroanatomy.  Students will become skilled in conducting a neurological examination which is guided by the pathophysiology, patient history, and functional deficits associated with or resulting from disease or injury to the nervous system.  Emphasis will also be placed on understanding normal and impaired movement through discussion of current motor control and motor learning theories.  The Nagi and ICF models of disablement will be used as frameworks for examining and evaluating movement dysfunction and for developing a plan of care.  		

SAR PT 653: Neurological System II
           			This course is a continuation of Examination and Treatment of Neurological Systems I and emphasizes evidence based physical therapy management for people who have specific neurological disorders. In PT652, a general foundation was developed for examining, evaluating, and determining appropriate interventions for individuals who have movement dysfunction secondary to neurological deficits. PT 653 will build on the foundation developed in PT 652 by considering how specific neurological disorders guide physical therapy practice. The course will focus on pathophysiology, examination, evaluation, diagnosis, prognosis, plan of care, intervention, and expected outcomes for commonly encountered diagnoses in neurorehabilitation such as Multiple Sclerosis, Traumatic Brain Injury, Spinal Cord Injury, Parkinson's Disease, and Cerebral Palsy. Common diagnostic groups are chosen with the intent of enhancing specific knowledge as well as developing a general problem solving approach that applies to any type of neurological diagnosis. The included diagnoses will illustrate how decision-making in physical therapy takes into account issues of age (life span), natural history, stage in the disease process, and nature (stable vs. progressive) of specific neurological disorders. Students will learn to develop a plan for examination, including the most sensitive and specific standardized examination tools, and to develop a plan of care that is specific to various diagnostic groups and that is based on current evidence.		

SAR PT 663: Directed Research
           			Research project implemented under the guidance of a faculty supervisor.		

SAR PT 681: Academic Practicum I
           			The Academic Practicum I experience provides students with the opportunity to apply and enhance their knowledge and skill while completing a more in depth and practical experience in one of four areas of their choosing: education, health promotion, clinical research or health care management. Students will identify an area of interest and collaborate with a mentor to design and begin implementation of a project that extends over two semesters.		

SAR PT 690: Independent Study in Physical Therapy
	Work on a special project developed by contract and conducted under supervision of a faculty member.		

SAR PT 691: Clinical Education Seminar I
           			This course is the first in a series of three seminars related to clinical education experiences of students in the Doctoral of Physical Therapy Program.  The content is rooted in professional behaviors, ethics, and the core values of accountability, compassion/ caring, integrity, and professional duty, in the practice of physical therapy.  The seminars are designed to bridge clinical and classroom experiences in these areas through the use of discussion, reflective learning, real life examples from clinical experiences, case studies, and collaborative learning.  This first course/seminar will also provide tools to assist the student with choosing and maximizing future clinical experiences. 		

SAR PT 692: Clinical Education Seminar II
           			This course is the second in a series of three seminars related to clinical education experiences.  The content is rooted in professional behaviors, ethics, and the core values of accountability, altruism, compassion/ caring, excellence, integrity, professional duty, and social responsibility in the practice of physical therapy.  The seminars are designed to bridge clinical and classroom experiences in these areas through the use of discussion, reflective learning, real life examples from clinical experiences, case studies, and collaborative learning.  This course will also provide tools to assist the student with choosing and maximizing future clinical experiences. 		

SAR PT 756: Pediatrics
           			This course is designed to improve student physical therapists' understanding, exposure, critical evaluation and integration of current best practice towards pediatric physical therapy clinical practice.  The readings, class discussions and lab related activities will focus on increasing students' understanding of typical and atypical development, and how factors affect a child's motor performance across all environments.  We will apply theoretical principles of motor control and neurological development to enhance understanding of typical motor development (briefly), as well as motor development in children with various diagnoses.		

SAR PT 773: Comprehensive Clinical Reasoning
	Comprehensive Clinical Reasoning is a case based course taught in small tutorial groups using the problem based learning format.  The course is intended to enhance integration of course content taught elsewhere in the curriculum within the context of a physical therapy case study.  Students will be expected to use a variety of resources, ( i.e. current literature, text books) to solve complex patient cases.  Issues to be discussed will include: streamlining the patient examination, clinical decision making, effective physical therapy intervention, likely prognosis, clinical teaching, the role of the PT in relation to other health care providers, issues involved in the delivery of physical therapy, including professionalism, interpersonal skills, communication, third party payers and ethics.		

