
SAR AT 205: Athletic Training Practicum I
	Initial exposure to the role and skills of an athletic trainer. Includes certification in Emergency Cardiac Care. 1 credit

SAR AT 304: Athletic Training Practicum II
	This clinical course integrates the fundamental principles of patient care, evidence-based practice, cultural competence, ethical decision making, and communication with students' clnical education experiences completed under the supervision and guidance of a preceptor. The required clinical education experience must be between 80 and 120 hours.

SAR AT 305: Athletic Training Practicum III
	This clinical course builds on content covered in AT 304: Athletic Training Practicum I with a focus on integrating foundations of professional practice, principles of patient care, and evidence-based practice, with students' clinical experiences completed under the supervision and guidance of a preceptor. The required clinical education experience must be between 80 and 120 hours.

SAR AT 355: Foundations of Athletic Training
	This is the first course in a two- part series on exam and diagnosis, focusing on acute care in athletic training. Emphasis will be placed on the role of the athletic trainer in prevention, diagnosis, and referral of patients in acute distress. This course lays the foundation of evaluation with concentration on primary and secondary surveys particularly during emergency situations. Clinical decision making and hands-on skills are emphasized.

SAR AT 356: Examination and Diagnosis of Orthopedic Conditions
	Evaluation and diagnosis of patients with upper and lower extremity orthopedic conditions; also includes immediate management of orthopedic injuries.

SAR AT 404: Clinical Athletic Training I
	Continued athletic training experience under the supervision and guidance of a program-approved health provider in an approved setting. This course includes content relating to examination of the head and spine and situational orthopedic and taping assessments. The required clinical education experience must be between 156 and 244 hours.

SAR AT 405: Clinical Athletic Training II
	Continued athletic training experience under the supervision and guidance of a program-approved health provider in an approved setting. This course includes content relating to the examination and management of patients with non-orthopedic conditions. A focus on developing proficiency in the examination of patients with orthopedic conditions is accomplished via situational orthopedic assessments. The required clinical education experience must be between 156 and 244 hours.

SAR AT 430: Orthopedic Rehabilitation
	This course will identify various approaches to assessing patients of all levels of function and implementing appropriate, evidence-based, interventions aimed at improving and enhancing that level of function throughout a performance spectrum. 

SAR AT 432: Organization and Administration of Athletic Training
	An overview of administrative concepts and organization of health care facilities that provide athletic training services. A problem-solving approach to facility design, fiscal management, insurance and legal issues is used. 

SAR AT 497 (: Ind Study
	

SAR AT 504: Clinical Athletic Training III
	Continued athletic training experience under the supervision and guidance of a program-approved heath care provide in an approved setting. Course meets periodically for formal competency development. The required clinical education experience must be between 156 and 244 hours.

SAR AT 505: Clinical Athletic Training IV
	Continued athletic training experience under the supervision and guidance of a program-approved health care provider in an approved setting. Course meets periodically for formal competency development. The required clinical education experience must be between 156 and 244 hours.

SAR AT 506: Evidence-Based Practice:  Clinical Applications
	This course is intended to expand students' ability to appropriately use research literature to guide clinical decision making and practice. 

SAR AT 672 (: Patient-Oriented Evidence for Athletic Trainers
	The course, arranged to meet the needs of the individual student, is designed to provide the student with a substantial foundation in core knowledge and clinical application of the principles of evidence-based practice. Faculty will work with students to determine their baseline level of knowledge regarding foundations and application of EBP principles. Working from this baseline, specific learning objectives and expected outcomes will be determined.

SAR HP 150: Freshman Year Experience
	This course is designed to provide an orientation to freshmen about the college experience.  Expectations, guidelines and resources will be made available to aid freshmen in making informed decisions about the quality of their education while clarifying and enhancing the students' experiences with the Boston University community.  Interaction with faculty advisors and peer mentors is provided.

SAR HP 151: Introduction to the Health and Rehabilitation Professions
	Freshmen Seminar. Exploration of the roles and functions of the health and rehabilitation disciplines. Introduction to the health care system and its impact on society. Sargent students only.

SAR HP 220: Occupation and Health
	Exploration of the factors that influence how people spend their time, including their choice of activity and their ability to perform important and meaningful activities,  and of the impact of these occupations on health and well-being across the life course. 

SAR HP 252: Health and Disability Across the Lifespan
	Overview of healthy development across the lifespan followed by an examination of common conditions that typically begin in certain stages.  Each condition will be examined for its individual, group and systemic impacts.

SAR HP 320: Health Conditions across the Life Course
	Overview of medical and psychosocial aspects of selected chronic diseases, with a particular focus on the impact of the disease and its management on the person's daily life.

SAR HP 345: Introduction to Sports Medicine
	Intended for students interested in sports, coaching, medicine and exercise, this course provides an introduction to prevention of injury and illness, basic exercise principles and first aid for an active population. 
