SAR HS 375: Cardiopulmonary Pathophysiology
           			Overview of anatomy and physiology of the cardiovascular and respiratory systems during normal and pathological conditions. Pathophysiology of exercise performance in cardiovascular and respiratory diseases. Adaptations to physical conditioning in these diseases.		

SAR HS 384: Medical Nutrition Therapy I
           			This course covers the pathophysiology of disease as it relates to nutrition care, and the Medical Nutrition Therapy appropriate for the care and management of that disease. Nutrition screening, nutrition assessment and nutrition care plan formulation will be discussed for the person with cardiovascular disease, hypertension, diabetes, obesity and other medical conditions. Documentation and monitoring/evaluation of the nutrition care plan will be discussed as well as the translation of care to the patient's menu and therapeutic diet plan. 4 credits, 1st semester		

SAR HS 385: Medical Nutrition Therapy II
           			This course is a continuation of SARHS384. This course focuses on medical nutrition therapy for various disease states, including gastrointestinal disease, kidney disease, cancer, AIDS, cystic fibrosis, and inborn errors of metabolism. This course also covers the metabolic response to trauma and critical illness and the importance of nutritional therapy in these states. The use of parenteral and enteral nutrition, intravenous catheters, and feeding tubes will be covered. Diet and drug interactions as well as alternative medicine and herbal therapy will be discussed. Students will use case studies to learn to apply their knowledge of nutrition care to the treatment of patients with various diseases. 4 credits, 2nd semester		

SAR HS 395: Food, Supplements, and Consumer Health
           			Students will conduct a detailed "aisle by aisle" review of foods available in today's marketplace with special attention to functional foods, foods for special dietary use, and foods modified through technology. Students will gain an understanding of the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act and become familiar with methods for evaluating dietary supplements with regard to product quality, safety, effectiveness, and doping status.  The influence of nutrition marketing on consumer purchasing patterns will be explored.  Students will apply the knowledge and skills gained throughout the course by comparing the nutrient content of specific foods and dietary supplements to the nutrient needs of consumers according to the Dietary Reference Intakes. 		

SAR HS 396: Dietary Interventions and Public Health
           			Students will gain an understanding of the social ecological model of health and how individual dietary behavior is influenced by factors in the environments in which they live, including family, social networks, organizations, communities, and societies. Students will become familiar with the use of theories in dietary interventions and the steps involved in developing theory-and-evidence-based programs that use an ecological approach to assess and intervene in diet-related health problems. Resources that use the systematic review process to establish evidence-based recommendations based on research findings will be used to examine the effectiveness of interventions to promote healthy eating at the population and policy levels.		

SAR HS 405: Health Science Practicum
           			Practical experience in health care setting (health policy, administrative, constituent advocacy) in hospital, clinic, public health setting, government or non-governmental health agency setting. 2 or 4 credits.		

SAR HS 410: Field Experience: Human Physiology
           			Practical experience in a research lab, clinic, community, or industrial setting, as appropriate. 		

SAR HS 412: Field Experience: Human Physiology II
           			 Continuation of SAR HS410		

SAR HS 415: Undergraduate Nutrition Practicum
           			For senior nutrition majors only. Practical experience working with a Registered Dietitian or related health care professional in a community, medical or private practice setting. 		

SAR HS 420: Applications of Food Service Management
           			This course provides students the opportunity to observe the food service management concepts learned in HS310/510 in a variety of "real world" operational settings. Students in this course will also create their own food service operation in written project and presentation format. 4 credits, 2nd semester		

SAR HS 422: Ethics in Health Care
	Available in Dublin Health Science program only This course provides an introduction to ethics and common ethical issues in health care. Lectures will address several topics specific to biomedical ethics, including end of life issues, reproductive technologies, and issues in biomedical research. These issues will be used to examine ethical reasoning, ethical theories and principles, and the use of cases and narratives in ethics. Special attention will be paid to developing skills of ethical analysis through an examination of philosophical arguments. When appropriate, any distinctively Irish dimensions to the ethical issues or cases will be examined. 4 cr. (Offered in the fall only.) 		

SAR HS 425: Healthcare Policy and Practice in Ireland
	Available in Dublin Health Science program only This course introduces students to the organization and delivery of healthcare.  It helps students develop a critical appreciation of the dynamics of healthcare policy making and the role of healthcare professionals within the sector.  It examines healthcare finance and the role and influence of the insurance and pharmaceutical industries. It also examines the social, environmental, and behavioral factors that affect healthcare across different social cohorts. It concludes by looking at healthcare regulation and reform.  		

SAR HS 430: Global Maternal &amp; Child Health
	This course will provide a global perspective on maternal and child health. Major topics will include early life influences on later life health, maternity care practices worldwide, and the role of both human evolutionary history and sociopolitical structures in shaping health outcomes for women and children		

SAR HS 440: Qualitative Research Strategies in Global Health
	Qualitative research methods are increasingly used in public health, and provide valuable insights into the local perspectives of study populations. This course provides practical strategies and methods for using qualitative research and includes the basic assumptions, approach and rationale for making qualitative research decisions, framing qualitative research questions, and designing appropriate research strategies. Examples will be drawn from current global health issues. 		

SAR HS 450: Non-Infectious Diseases
           			This course will examine the four most common preventable non-infectious diseases (diabetes, cardiovascular disease, cancer, upper respiratory diseases), which accounted for nearly 60% of all deaths in the world and 80% in the developing world. Estimates predict that the "second wave" of non-infectious diseases in the coming years will have a detrimental impact on global health and economies. Despite the enormous global burden of non-infectious (or non-communicable) diseases, adequate programs for prevention and treatment do not exist and challenges faced are complex. This course will focus on the preventable risk factors (diet, exercise, tobacco, alcohol, lifestyle, etc), growing burden of disease, and current issues and challenges in control of the four most common diseases, and include discussion, field trips to examine the issues, and the ability for students to be a part of the solution through design of their own intervention. 		

SAR HS 463: Germs and Genes
			

SAR HS 467: Research Methods in Nutrition
           			This course provides an overview of methods used in nutrition research, including dietary assessment methods, indicators of nutritional status, analysis and presentation of dietary data, statistical interpretation, and clinical research methods. The course includes lectures, a field trip to a Boston-area clinical research center, and hands-on experience with nutritional assessment and anthropometrics techniques. Students participate in in-class discussions of published research articles to learn techniques for deriving evidence-based recommendations for clinical practice. Upon completion of this course, students will be able to read, interpret, and understand the findings from clinical research studies and understand the fundamental tools that are used by nutrition researchers.		

SAR HS 470: Topics in Public Health
           			This course addresses new and emerging issues in the field of public health through interactive case study method and the medical literature. The format is small group discussion. Topics vary each semester; but include infectious diseases (HIV/AIDS), maternal and child health, chronic diseases (obesity, mental illness), health and human rights, and international health. 4 credits, 2nd semester		

SAR HS 475: Disability Advocacy and the Law: Theory, Practice and Real World Challenges and Actions
           			This interdisciplinary course provides the student an exciting understanding of disability advocacy, integrating theory and practical coursework. It emphasizes the role of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and its supporting Amendment Act (ADAAA) as the basis for disability advocacy through theory and direct experience; how advocacy occurs among disability stakeholders (the nation's public health leadership, elected officials, lawyers, judicial, health care, education and social service systems, and providers, family members, persons with disabilities, media, and the public). The class provides hands-on learning on the challenges of non-available disability-based accommodations along with the development of and opportunity to implement a corrective action plan. 4 credits, 2nd semester		

SAR HS 486: Applied Nutrition Care
           			This course provides a review of and an opportunity to implement all aspects of the nutritional care process. Through classroom discussion of case studies as well as experiences at in- and out- patient facilities, students will gain expertise in the provision of nutritional care. 4 credits, 1st semester		

