SAR PT 780: Academic Practicum
	The purpose of the Academic Practicum experience in the Doctor of Physical Therapy Program is to provide students with the opportunity to apply and enhance their knowledge and skill while completing a more in depth and practical experience in one of four areas of their choosing:  education, clinical research, health promotion or health care management. Students collaborate with a mentor to design and implement the Practicum. The experience also provides for refinement and development of skills and behaviors in a wide variety of collateral areas not immediately associated with the primary content area. 		

SAR PT 781: Academic Practicum II
           			The Academic Practicum experience provides students with the opportunity to apply and enhance their knowledge and skill while completing a more in depth and practical experience in one of four areas of their choosing: education, health promotion, clinical research or health care management. Students will implement and complete the project initially developed during Academic Practicum I course.		

SAR PT 790: Clinical Exp Pt
			

SAR PT 791: Clinical Education Experience 1
           			This is the first of three full-time clinical experiences in the DPT curriculum.  It is designed to focus on the synthesis of knowledge, skills and behaviors learned in the classroom and laboratory, and addressed during the integrated clinical experiences.  Students are expected to demonstrate the ability to make sound clinical decisions in the management of non-complex patient problems in a moderately paced environment. Students are supervised in clinical and community settings by qualified physical therapists.		

SAR PT 792: Clinical Education Experience 2
           			This is the second of three full-time clinical education experiences in the DPT curriculum. It is designed to focus on the synthesis of knowledge, skills and behaviors learned in the classroom, laboratory and addressed throughout the first 5 semesters of the DPT program.  Students are expected to demonstrate the ability to make sound clinical decisions in the management of non-complex patient problems in a moderately paced environment. Students are supervised in clinical and community settings by qualified physical therapists.		

SAR PT 793: Clinical Education Internship
           			This is the third of three full-time clinical experiences in the DPT curriculum. It is designed to focus on the synthesis of knowledge, skills and behaviors learned throughout the first 6 semesters of the DPT program. Students are expected to demonstrate the ability to make sound clinical decisions in the management of patient problems in a moderately paced environment. Students are supervised in clinical and community settings by qualified physical therapists.		

SAR PT 794: Clinical Education Seminar III
           			This course is the final in a series of three seminars related to clinical education experiences of students in the Doctor of Physical Therapy program.  The content is rooted in professional behaviors, ethics, and the core values of accountability, altruism, compassion/ caring, excellence, integrity, professional duty, and social responsibility in the practice of physical therapy.  The seminars are designed to bridge clinical and classroom experiences in these areas through the use of discussion, reflective learning, real-life examples, and collaborative learning.  Some information covered in previous seminars will be explored again in light of additional clinical experience in a different setting.  In addition, this final course will also provide tools to assist the student with the transition to becoming a professional physical therapist including attaining licensure and employment and developing a plan for ongoing professional development. 		

SAR PT 900: Neuro Residency
			

SAR PT 901: Neuro Residency
			

SAR RS 650: Foundations of Rehabilitation Science
	This course serves as an introduction into philosophy of science and ethics. The first four lectures will focus on the different perspectives in the organism-environment relationship, mind-body distinction, and action will be discussed. These perspectives will be related to theories on the emergence of knowledge, conceptual frameworks in health and rehabilitation sciences, and ethical reasoning. The goal of this course is to facilitate the ability of the students to critically analyze the assumptions of theories and models in health and rehabilitation sciences.  Format of sessions will be lecture, discussion and presentation of main assignment. Student presentations will be integrated into the topics presented.		

SAR RS 750: Research Design
	This course serves as an introduction into research designs relevant to rehabilitation science. The first set of sessions provides the background and framework for understanding the reasoning behind different research designs.  The remaining sessions focus on various categories of research designs, the types of research questions these designs address, and the types of data analyses that are appropriate to the designs. The course content is integrated with the content students received in Philosophy of Rehabilitation Science.  Format of sessions are lecture, discussion, and experiential. Student assignments are individualized to student areas of mentored research. Student presentations are integrated into the topics presented according to the class schedule.		

SAR RS 790: Teaching Skills
	The role of the researcher as teacher is highly valued but seldom emphasized in graduate education. This course is designed to provide students with the opportunity to learn and practice sound teaching and learning principles and mechanics into the teaching of College-level students. Students will be required to present a class four times during the semester. Following presentations, the student will be critiqued by the instructor and by peers. Students will also be given a number of readings around which discussion will take place. Discussion will emphasize how students might incorporate the lessons from their readings into the next presentation. Finally students will be required to develop a detailed course outline and schedule and a sample lesson. Ideally this will be preparation for a class that the student may eventually teach. The primary emphasis will be on teaching of medium to large classes using the lecture method.		

SAR RS 870: Emerging Topics
	A seminar for doctoral students that focuses on a different topic each semester.		

SAR RS 890: Doctoral Seminar in Rehabilitation Sciences
	This seminar allows for a discussion of topics of interest to doctoral-level students in the PhD program in Rehabilitation Sciences, and is designed to provide insight in 1) curricular aspects of the PhD program, 2) mentor-mentee relationship, 3) skills necessary for PhD graduates entering the field of rehabilitation sciences with a research doctorate, and 4) interdisciplinary nature of the field of rehabilitation. This course enhances the student's ability to successfully complete the PhD program by working on skills needed to write and critically review IRB proposals, research manuscripts and research grant proposals, to outline ethical dilemmas in research, to formulate and disseminate a line of inquiry, and to distinguish various career paths. Literature addressing these issues will be used throughout to illustrate the arguments.		

SAR RS 900: Yr 1 Mentorship
			

SAR RS 910: Rs Scd Dir Read
			

SAR RS 911: Rs Scd Dir Res
			

SAR RS 920: Comp Exam
			

SAR RS 930: Dis Pro Dev
			

SAR RS 940: Dis Reseach
			

