CAS AA 103: Introduction to African American Literature
	An introduction to the political, cultural, and historical roots of the African American experience through  readings of a range of African American literature from Colonial to Contemporary. Carries humanities  divisional credit in CAS. Also offered as CAS EN 129.		

CAS AA 207: Sociology of Race and Ethnicity
	Social definition of race and ethnicity. The adjustment of different ethnic groups and their impact upon  U.S. social life. How prejudice and discrimination create class identities and how caste relations have  affected patterns of integration during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Carries social science  divisional credit in CAS.  Also offered as CAS SO 207.  		

CAS AA 304: Introduction to African American Women Writers
	Examines the African American female literary tradition through selected texts by African American  women, written from slavery to the present. Critical scholarship that interrogates race, gender, and class and examines literary history provides the larger context for discussion of these works. Also offered as CAS EN 370.		

CAS AA 305: Toni Morrison's American Times
	Examines four of the Nobel Laureate's novels, using primary and secondary materials to construct historical contexts and critical perspectives. Also offered as CAS EN 370.		

CAS AA 306: Experiencing Cuba: History, Culture, and Politics
           			Expeditionary course, team taught by BU and local faculty in Havana, Cuba. Firsthand study of the island's  history, culture, and politics, toward understanding of the local, international, and transnational processes  that shaped and continue to shape this unique society. Also offered as CAS HI 395 E and CAS IR 246 E.		

CAS AA 310: History of the Civil Rights Movement
	History of the African American struggle for racial equality and democracy from the turn of the century through the 1960s. Use is made of the most recent scholarship, memoirs, documentary films, and oral history accounts. Also offered as CAS HI 378.		

CAS AA 316: African Diaspora Arts in the Americas
	Study of the transmission of African artistry in the Caribbean, South America, and the  United States from the period of slavery to the present. Topics include Kongo and Yoruba  arts and their influence on the arts of Santería, Vodun, and carnival. Also offered as CAS AH 316.		

CAS AA 363: Race and the Development of the American Economy: A Global Perspective
           			Surveys the economic history of African Americans within the context of the development of the American and global economies. Topics include the economics of slavery; race and industrialization; the Great Migration; anti-discrimination legislation; and the historical origins of contemporary racial inequalities. Also offered as CAS EC 363.  		

CAS AA 371: African American History
           			The history of African Americans from African origins to present time; consideration of slavery,  reconstruction, and ethnic relations from the colonial era to our own time. Also offered as CAS HI 298. 		

CAS AA 382: History of Religion in Pre-Colonial Africa
	The study of the development of religious traditions in Africa during the period prior to European  colonialism. An emphasis on both indigenous religions and the growth and spread of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam in the continent as a whole. Also offered as CAS HI 349 and CAS RN 382.		

CAS AA 385: Atlantic History
	Examines the various interactions that shaped the Atlantic World, connecting Europe, Africa, and the Americas between 1400 and 1800. Begins by defining the political interaction, then emphasizes cultural exchange, religious conversion, and the revolutionary era. Also offered as CAS HI 350.		

CAS AA 388: Black Radical Thought
	Black radical thought in America, Europe, and Africa since the eighteenth century through writings of abolitionists, leaders of revolutions and liberation movements, Black nationalists, and Black socialists. Emphasizes the global nature of the "Black World" and its role in world history. Also offered as CAS HI 361.		

CAS AA 395: Power, Leadership, and Governance in Africa and the Caribbean
	Haitian Revolution; British Caribbean, leadership, governance, and power in Africa during the period of legitimate trade; visionaries, dictators, and nationalist politics in the Caribbean; chiefs, western elites, and nationalism in colonial Africa; road to governance in post-colonial Caribbean and Africa. Also offered as CAS HI 352 and IR 394.		

CAS AA 408: Seminar:  Ethnic, Race, and Minority Relations
           			Formation and position of ethnic minorities in the United States, including cross-group comparisons from England, Africa, and other parts of the world.  Readings and field experience. Also offered as CAS SO 408. 		

CAS AA 489: The African Diaspora in the Americas
           			Topic for Spring 2015: African American History in Comparative Perspective. African American history in an  international framework. Examines development of racial categories during and after the transatlantic  trade, Black participation in the wars of independence in the Americas, diverse Black communities in the  twentieth century. Also offered as CAS HI 489.		

CAS AA 490: Blacks and Asians: Encounters Through Time and Space
	Exploration of historical encounters between Africans and people of African descent, and Asians and people of Asian descent.  How such people imagined themselves, interacted with each other, viewed each other, influenced each other, and borrowed from each other.		

CAS AA 491: Directed Study in African American Studies
           					

CAS AA 492: Directed Study in African American Studies
           					

CAS AA 501: Topics in African American Literature
	Topic for Fall 2013: Literature of the Early Black Atlantic. Considers the first century of literature written in  English by authors of African descent, including Phillis Wheatley, Olaudah Equiano, Mary Prince, and  Frederick Douglass. How did these writers represent the early modern world? How did they work to change  it? Also offered as CAS EN 579 A1.		

CAS AA 502: Topics in African American Literature
	Topic for Spring 2015: Tracking Changes in the Twentieth-Century African American Novel: Negotiations  of Genre and Gender. Readings of Slave Narratives and Neo Slave Narratives, and the Urban Novel. Authors include Toni Morrison, Octavia Butler, Richard Wright, Ralph Ellison, and Walter Mosley. Also offered as  CAS EN 588.		

CAS AA 504: African American and Asian American Women Writers
           			Cross-cultural comparison of selected African American and Asian American women writers examines  strategies by the "Other" to navigate cultural constructions of race, class, and gender. Attention to literary  histories. Also offered as CAS EN 584.		

CAS AA 507: Literature of the Harlem Renaissance
	This study of the Harlem Renaissance (1919-1935) focuses on literature with overviews of the stage, the  music, and the visual arts. Authors include Du Bois, Locke, Garvey, Schuyler, Hurston, McKay, Larsen,  Fisher, Hughes, Cullen. Also offered as CAS EN 377.		

CAS AA 510: African American Drama
	A study of African American and Afro-Caribbean dramatic literature. Focuses on the work of August  Wilson, Lorraine Hansberry, Aimé Césaire, and Derek Walcott in the context of Western drama. Also offered  as CAS EN 588 A1. 		

CAS AA 514: Labor, Sexuality, and Resistance in the Afro-Atlantic World
           			The role of slavery in shaping the society and culture of the Afro-Atlantic world, highlighting the role of  labor, the sexual economy of slave regimes, and the various strategies of resistance deployed by enslaved people. Also offered as CAS HI 584.		

CAS AA 569: African American Economic History
           			Introduction to current research in African American economic history. Topics include slavery and its aftermath, the long-term evolution of racial economic differences, segregation, voting rights, and anti-discrimination legislation. Also offered as CAS EC 569.		

CAS AA 571: African American Art
           			Studies African American art and craft production from the early nineteenth century to the present against the background of the diaspora, reconstruction, and the modernist movements of the late-nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Also offered as CAS AH 571. 		

CAS AA 580: The History of Racial Thought
	Study of racial thinking and feeling in Europe and the United States since the fifteenth   century. Racial thinking in the context of Western encounters with non-European people   and Jews; its relation to social, economic, cultural, and political trends. Also offered as   CAS HI 580.		

CAS AA 588: Women, Power, and Culture in Africa
           			Understanding the role of women in African history. Topics include the Atlantic slave trade, power, religion, the economy, resistance movements, health, the state, and kinship. Emphasis on the period before independence. Also offered as CAS HI 588. 		

CAS AA 590: The World and the West
           			Explores relations between the West and the Third World from 1850, focusing on  national and cultural movements in the Third World, and places the African American  struggle for freedom in the United States in global and comparative perspective. Also  offered as CAS HI 590.		

CAS AH 111: Introduction to Art History I: Antiquity to the Middle Ages
	An introduction to art history and the analysis of painting, sculpture, and architecture. Study of masterpieces from prehistoric to medieval times. Focus on monuments of Greece, Rome, and the Middle Ages, with a survey of Egyptian and Near Eastern art. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS AH 112: Introduction to Art History II: Renaissance to Today
	Major monuments and artists. Sequential development, from the Renaissance to the modern period, of major styles in architecture, sculpture, painting, graphic arts, and photography. Relationship of visual art to social and cultural trends. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS AH 201: Understanding Architecture: Theoretical Approaches to the Built Environment
	Introduces a range of approaches to the analysis of architecture. Learn how scholars and architects have interpreted meaning in architecture through the rubrics of art, structure, language, nonverbal communication, experience, and culture.		

CAS AH 204: Topics in Religion and the Visual Arts
	Explores interplay between religion and art through the study of historical, contemporary examples. Topic     changes each year. May be repeated for credit. Topic for Fall 2014: Buddhist Art of Asia. Study of the  philosophical underpinnings, use and social significance of Buddhist Art in India, Tibet, China, and  Indonesia. Special attention to the communication of key Buddhist concepts and practices through the use  of visual narrative strategies. Also offered as CAS RN 204.		

CAS AH 205: Architecture: An Introduction
	Examination of the factors involved in architectural design including program, spatial composition, structure, technology, iconography, and the role of architecture in society. Discussion of major monuments of Western architecture and urbanism from ancient Egypt to the twenty-first century. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS AH 215: Arts of Africa
	Exploration of key themes in royal art and architecture from western central, eastern, and southern Africa. Topics include state cosmology, dynastic history, palace architecture, royal regalia and ceremonies, court women, and the importance of art in diplomacy and war. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS AH 220: Islamic Art and Architecture
	Examines key monuments of Islamic art and architecture within their historical and cultural context, and emphasizes the diversity within the visual cultures of the Islamic world. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.   		

CAS AH 222: Art and Architecture in Ancient America
	Introduction to the cities, monuments, and major art styles of the Aztec, the Maya, the Inca, and their predecessors in ancient Mesoamerica and the Andes from the first millennium BC to the sixteenth century.		

CAS AH 225: The Arts of Asia
	Surveys of the major artistic traditions of Asia. Important monuments are examined analytically in order to explain why certain forms and styles are characteristic of specific times and places, and how these monuments functioned in their cultural contexts. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS AH 232: Archaeology of Ancient Egypt
	The technology, economy, social life, political organization, religions, art, and architecture of Egypt from   Predynastic times through the Hellenistic period, based on archaeological and historical sources. Emphasis   on the period of the pharaohs (ca. 3000-323 BCE). Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS. Also offered   as CAS AR 232. 		

CAS AH 233: The Arts of Greece
	Greek architecture, painting, sculpture, and minor arts. Emphasis on developments in  Athens and on the creation of the classical style in art and architecture. 		

CAS AH 234: The Art of Rome
	Roman architecture, painting, sculpture, and minor arts.  Emphasis on developments in Rome, Pompeii, and Central Italy and on the political and social role of Roman art and architecture.		

CAS AH 240: Medieval Art
	European art and architecture from the Fall of Rome through High Gothic. Covers media including sculpture, textiles, stained glass, and precious metalwork. Monuments treated are Rome's great churches, the Book of Kells, the Bayeux Tapestry, and Chartres and Rheims cathedrals.		

CAS AH 242: Latin American Art Since Contact
	Surveys Latin American art from the colonial period to the present and relates it to imperial, state,  institutional, and private agendas. Interrogates both notions of art within colonial/neo-colonial contexts  and changing roles of artists over the past half millennium.		

CAS AH 257: Renaissance Art
	Survey of the arts in the Renaissance in Italy from the communes of the early fifteenth  century to the courts of the sixteenth century. 		

CAS AH 284: Arts in America
	Survey of American painting, architecture, sculpture, prints, and photography from the early settlement in 1630 to the present. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS AH 287: The Nineteenth Century
	Examines the major currents in nineteenth-century painting and sculpture, from David to  Rodin, in the context of nationalism, revolution, colonial expansion, and technological  growth. Emphasizes European developments: Neoclassicism, Romanticism, Realism,  Impressionism, and Symbolism. 		

CAS AH 295: History of Photography
	An introduction to the study of photographs. The history of the medium in Europe and America from its invention in 1839 to the present. After lectures on photographic theory and methodology, photographs are studied both as art objects and as historical artifacts. 		

CAS AH 313: Imperial Reflections: Early Modern Islamic Art and Architecture
	Architecture, manuscripts, textiles, metalwork, and ceramics of the Mughal, Ottoman, and Safavid Empires. Focus on the formation of imperial styles, intersections between art and politics, and the importance of the arts in dynastic legitimization.		

CAS AH 314: After Genghis Khan: Art and Architecture in Central Asia and Iran
	Examines the art and architecture in Iran and Central Asia of the Ilkhanids and Timurids (thirteenth-sixteenth centuries), two of the most innovative and dynamic artistic traditions of the Islamic world, and heirs to the traditions of Genghis Khan's Mongol Empire.		

CAS AH 316: African Diaspora Arts in the Americas
	Study of the transmission of African artistry in the Caribbean, South America, and the  United States from the period of slavery to the present. Topics include Kongo and Yoruba  arts and their influence on the arts of Santería, Vodun, and carnival. Also offered as CAS AA 316.		

CAS AH 317: From Morocco to Timbuktu: Art and Architecture at the Saharan Crossroads
	Cultural exchange between North and West Africa, and its impact on art and architecture from the medieval period to the present; the interaction between Islam and other modes of African religious practice and how this interaction influenced African aesthetic expression. 		

CAS AH 322: Ancient Aztec and Inca Civilizations
           			The conquests, trade, society, history, religion, art, and  architecture of the Aztec and Inca Empires in Mexico and Peru, as revealed  archaeologically and in the accounts of their Spanish conquerors. Also offered as CAS AR 322.		

CAS AH 326: Arts of Japan
	The arts of Japan, from prehistory to the twentieth century. Lectures intend to cover a broad range of  media (painting, sculpture, ceramics, prints) and building types (temples, palaces, castles, teahouses).  Special attention is paid to major projects integrating multiple forms.		

CAS AH 327: Arts of China
	Introduction to the major tradition of Chinese art, from the Neolithic period to the present. Topics include bronzes, tomb sculpture, painting,calligraphy, ceramics, and gardens.  		

CAS AH 328: Modern Japanese Architecture
	An introduction to the major architects, buildings, theories, and critical issues of Japanese architecture from 1850 to the present. Focus on the development of new forms in response to interchanges with the West, new technologies, earthquakes, nationalism, international wars, and colonialism.		

CAS AH 331: Arts of Archaic Greece
	Examines a critical formative stage in Greek art. Analyzes the rise of identifiable artists,  the relationship of art to epic, the evolution of the architectural orders, and the formation  of Greek style in monumental stone sculpture.		

CAS AH 345: Early Medieval and Romanesque Art
	Art and architecture of medieval Europe from the Early Christian Catacombs to the great Gothic cathedrals.   Topics include piety, the cult of relics, the Virgin, monasticism, and secular monuments such as medieval  European castles and the Bayeux Tapestry.		

CAS AH 353: Renaissance Architecture and Theory
	Italian Renaissance architecture and architectural theory from 1400 to 1600.  Emphasis on individual buildings and urban planning in Rome, Florence, and Venice, and on treatises by Alberti, Serlio, and Palladio. 		

CAS AH 359: Northern Renaissance Painting
	The painting in countries north of the Alps (Netherlands, Flanders, Burgundy, France, Germany) from the fourteenth through the sixteenth centuries, studied in its historic, cultural, environmental, and artistic contexts. Architecture, sculpture, and graphics are included. 		

CAS AH 361: Southern Baroque Art
	Seventeenth-century art in Italy, France, and Spain; emphasis on Caravaggio, Bernini, Poussin, Velázquez.		

CAS AH 365: Baroque Arts in Northern Europe
	Seventeenth-century art in Holland and Flanders. Emphasis on Rubens, Van Dyck,  Frans Hals, Rembrandt, and Vermeer.		

CAS AH 367: Material Culture
	Introduction to the theory and practice of the interdisciplinary study of material culture, which includes everything we make and use, from food and clothing to art and buildings. Topic for Fall 2013: American Folk Art. Course will explore the range of objects, created from the seventeenth century to the present, known as American Folk Art. Also offered as CAS AM 367. 		

CAS AH 368: The Grand Tour
	The culminating educational experience for the elite of Enlightenment Europe took the form of an   extended trip to Italy, "The Grand Tour." This course recreates the itinerary of the Tour and analyzes its   impact on art, architecture, collecting, and connoisseurship.		

CAS AH 369: American Folk Art
	Explores the objects that collectors and museums identify as "American Folk Art." Examines how this label  developed throughout the twentieth century; familiarizes students with major collections and genres  including painting, sculpture, textiles, and other media. Also offered as CAS AM 369.		

CAS AH 376: Housing America
	What do dwellings say about the diversity of American experience? For over four centuries and across a  continent, wealth and poverty, family and community, taste and technology have all shaped the meaning of  home. Illustrated lecturers supplemented by field trips. Also offered as CAS AM 376.		

CAS AH 377: American Furniture and Allied Arts, 1630-1830
	Survey of furniture and related arts-painting, architecture, and silver-with an emphasis on aesthetics and quality, sources, style changes, regional differences, materials, and construction.		

CAS AH 379: American Art and Culture in the Nineteenth Century
	Explores the visual arts of painting, sculpture, photography, and popular media, through their interplay  with persistent political and social questions that defined nineteenth-century America and continue to  shape life in the twenty-first century. Themes include heroes, citizenship, war, imperialism,  cosmopolitanism, consumerism.		

CAS AH 382: Nineteenth-Century Architecture
	Survey of European and American architecture from 1750 to 1910. Explores issues in architecture, landscape architecture and city planning, and examines style, technology, and architectural theory.  		

CAS AH 385: American Architecture
	An introductory survey to the American-built environment across centuries and spanning regions. Students  examine how culture, technology, economics, and geography have shaped American buildings, spaces, and  landscapes. Topics include houses, courthouses, churches, factories, cities, and resort communities.		

CAS AH 386: Twentieth-Century American Painting
	Realist and avant-garde movements of the twentieth century, including New York dada, early abstraction, regionalism, art and politics during the depression years, abstract expressionism, pop art and minimal art, performance art, feminist art, and recent developments in postmodernism.  		

CAS AH 389: Impressionism
	Detailed study of Impressionism from 1860s to circa 1900. Emphasis is on French artists, but  Impressionists elsewhere in Europe and America are also considered. Discusses Impressionism's sources,  Realist underpinnings, stylistic development, themes, and changes in the 1880s.		

CAS AH 391: Twentieth-Century Art to 1940
	A study of the key tendencies in European art between the 1880s and World War II. The work of van Gogh, Picasso, Matisse, Dalí, and their contemporaries is examined in relation to major issues in European culture and politics. 		

CAS AH 392: Twentieth-Century Art from 1940 to 1980
	An exploration of the major currents in European and American art between 1940 and 1980. Examines abstract expressionism, pop art, minimalism, earthworks, and conceptual art in relation to major issues in postwar culture, politics, and art criticism.		

CAS AH 393: Contemporary Art: 1980 to Now
	Explores the terms of debate, key figures, and primary sites for the production and reception of contemporary art on a global scale since 1980. Painting, installation art, new media, performance, art criticism, and curatorial practice are discussed. 		

CAS AH 398: Twentieth-Century Architecture
	An introduction to the major developments in architecture and urban planning from ca. 1900 to the present. Traces the history of modern architecture in key projects, taking account of formal, technological, and ideological factors, as well as social, cultural, and environmental contexts.		

CAS AH 399: History and Theory of Landscape Architecture
	Explores man's relationship with nature by a study of selected built environments from antiquity to the present. Focus on both the private garden and the public park--here considered as works of art--and their changing forms, meaning, and interpretations.		

CAS AH 428: Seminar: Islamic Art
           			The development of the central aesthetic concepts and visual traditions of the Islamic world are    considered through a variety of time periods, media, or themes. Topic for Spring 2013: Painting and  Calligraphy in Islam. Examines the manuscript traditions of the Islamic world, with particular attention to  painting and calligraphy. Books and albums are considered within the genres of religious, historical, and  literary manuscripts. Consideration of the Persian epic Shahnama, glittering Qurans, and royal albums.		

CAS AH 429: Seminar: African Art
           			In-depth examination of varying topics in the study of African art and architecture. Topic for Spring 2014:  Contemporary African Art. A seminar concentrating on contemporary African painting, sculpture, and  photography from 1950 to the present. We question and critique how the term "contemporary" is used in an  African context and analyze the dichotomy between "contemporary" and "traditional" African art.		

CAS AH 433: Seminar: Greek Art
           			Topics vary annually. Topic for Spring 2014: TBA.		

CAS AH 438: Seminar: Pompeii
	An in-depth study of Pompeii and the other towns buried by Mount Vesuvius. All aspects of the Vesuvian  cities are examined, including urban planning and public architecture, private domestic and funerary  architecture, mural painting, mosaics, and sculpture. Also offered as CAS AR 438.		

CAS AH 444: Seminar: Medieval Art
           			In-depth examination of varying topics in the study of Medieval Art. Topic for Fall 2014: TBA.		

CAS AH 462: Seminar: Baroque Art
           			Topic for Spring 2014: The Alliance of Art and Power in the Baroque. Explores the relationship between  visual  culture and political authority in seventeenth century Europe. Focus on painting, architecture, and   sculpture by major artists of the period, including Rubens, Van Dyck, Velázquez, Rembrandt, and Bernini.		

CAS AH 482: Seminar: Nineteenth-Century Art
           			Topic for Fall 2013: Romanticism. An exploration of the art of Goya, Blake, Friedrich, Géricault, Delacroix,  and others, who created enduring works of the imagination in an era of revolution, nationalism, and  religious revival. Includes discussion of weekly readings, an oral report, and a final paper.		

CAS AH 494: Seminar: Photography
           			Topic for Spring 2014: The Photographic Book. This seminar examines the photographic book from 1839 to the present. Focus on the book as a unique form for the medium, and study of image/text relationships, narrative structures, and cultural constructions of the book's message.		

CAS AH 495: Seminar: Twentieth Century Art
           			Examines major artists and artistic currents of the twentieth century. Topics vary each year. Some     background in the history of modern art is recommended. Topic for Fall 2014: Picasso. This seminar  explores more than eight decades of incessant art making by Pablo Picasso. How his friends, his lovers,  and his preoccupation with eroticism and death affected his imagery.		

CAS AH 497: Seminar: Contemporary Art
           			Topic for Fall 2014: Contemporary Art and Globalization. Considers globalization as the key paradigm for  art produced since 1989. Explores how international artists and curators have negotiated the space  between local tradition and global exchange while participating in large-scale, international exhibitions.		

CAS AH 501: Practicum in Museum Studies
		Centered on an internship, which must comprise a supervised project approved in advance by the Director of Museum Studies. Stamped approval prior to the internship is necessary for registration in the course. Internships in Boston-area museums, galleries, historical agencies, and houses arranged for advanced undergraduate and graduate students, 10-12 hours per week (150 hours per semester) at the host institution, with written report.   		

CAS AH 503: Art Historical Methods
           			The history and methods of art history through the writings of Vasari, Winckelmann, Kant, Wölfflin, Riegl,  Panofsky, Gombrich, among others. The course plots approaches to art historical questions and frames the  considered writings within broader cultural and historical contexts.		

CAS AH 504: Topics in Religion and the Visual Arts
           			In-depth discussion of special issues in the study of religion and art. May be repeated for credit as topics    change. Also offered as CAS RN  504.		

CAS AH 520: The Museum and Historical Agency
		History, present realities, and future possibilities of museums and historical agencies, using Boston's  excellent examples. Issues and debates confronting museums today examined in the light of historical  development and changing communities. Emphasis on collecting, display and interpretation.		

CAS AH 521: Curatorship
		Topic for Spring 2014: Exhibition Development. Addresses the history of exhibitions and issues in  contemporary curating. Topics discussed range from the historiography and pragmatics of exhibition  making, to the issues central to curatorial thinking through readings of texts by curators, historians, and  artists.		

CAS AH 527: Topics in Art and Society
	May be repeated for credit as topics change. Topic for Fall 2014: Archaeology to World Heritage.  Investigates how architecture and landscape architecture become World Heritage sites. Considers sites'  prior development as "theaters" of change, and their performances; architects, artists and others as agents  in globalization, cosmopolitanism and, perhaps, displacement. 		

CAS AH 529: Seminar: Twentieth-Century Chinese Art
           			Critical examinations of twentieth-century Chinese art, including the fate of traditional art, art under a totalitarian regime, the problematic status of the artist in a socialist state, and avant-garde art in the international context.		

CAS AH 530: Chinese and Japanese Calligraphy: History, Theory, and Practice
	Introduction to the history, theory, and practice of the art of Chinese and Japanese  calligraphy. The related art of seal carving is also introduced. No knowledge of Chinese  or Japanese required.  		

CAS AH 531: Modern Asian Art in a Global Context
	Seminar on print culture of Japan from the nineteenth century to the present. Formats to be studied include  woodblock prints, photographic prints, book art, print advertisements, postcards, and manga. A central exploration of this course is how works in these formats function as both artistic expression and instruments of mass communication.		

CAS AH 532: Japanese Print Culture
           			Seminar on print culture of Japan from the eighteenth century to the present. Study of woodblock prints, photographic prints, book art, print advertisements, postcards, and manga. Focus on their function as both artistic expression and instruments of mass communication.		

CAS AH 541: Courtly Commissions: Ottoman Art and Architecture
           			Explores the artistic patronage of the Ottoman court, fifteenth to seventeenth centuries. Questions of self-fashioning, artistic agency, courtly behavior, decorum, and the formation of an imperial style frame the discussion of specific works of art and architecture.		

CAS AH 543: Latin American Art and the Cold War
           			Study of Latin American artistic practices in relation to Cold War political frameworks, such as development  and dependency discourses, the impact of the Cuban Revolution, U.S. and Soviet cultural policies, and the  rise of numerous political dictatorships.		

CAS AH 553: Documenting Historic Buildings and Landscapes
	A seminar designed to train students in architectural research techniques through supervised reading,  fieldwork, and writing. Students are introduced to the skills needed to conduct research on both individual  resources and groups of resources, clustered within an area or scattered throughout a community. Also  offered as CAS AM 553.		

CAS AH 557: High Renaissance and Mannerist Art in Italy
	Topic for Fall 2014: Early Modern Collectors and Collecting. This seminar considers the emergence of  collectors of Renaissance art and their varied collecting practices from the sixteenth century until the  present day. Topics covered in the course include theories of collecting and collections.		

CAS AH 563: Alliance of Art and Power in the Baroque
           			Explores the relationship between visual culture and political authority in seventeenth century Europe.  Focus on painting, architecture, and sculpture by major artists of the period, including Rubens, Van Dyck,  Velázquez, Rembrandt, and Bernini. 		

CAS AH 570: Seventeenth- and Eighteenth-Century American Architecture
	Lectures and field trips explore American architecture and building from initial European contact through the end of the eighteenth century. Emphasis on New England, with discussion of architectural forms from other regions. 		

CAS AH 571: African American Art
	Studies African American art and craft production from the early nineteenth century to the present against the background of the diaspora, reconstruction, and the modernist movements of the late-nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Also offered as CAS AA 571.		

CAS AH 572: Gilded Age America: Visual Culture from 1865-1900
			

CAS AH 580: Architectural Technology and Materials
           			An introduction to the history of architectural construction, technologies, and materials, and their consequences in the built environment. Students receive a practical understanding of the building process and of its social and cultural contexts.		

CAS AH 582: Historic Houses
	Studies the preservation of historic homes as museums, a phenomenom involving more than 26,000 houses throughout the U.S. since 1850. Considers Boston's excellent examples as works of architecture and design and as icons in debates about national and regional identities. 		

CAS AH 584: Greater Boston: Architecture and Planning
	Examines the buildings, development patterns, and open space planning of greater Boston, with particular  emphasis on the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Weekly visits to neighborhoods and buildings  throughout the city are combined with independent research projects for each member of the seminar.		

CAS AH 585: Twentieth-Century Architecture and Urbanism
           			Topic for Spring 2014: Architecture in Europe, 1945-1989. Covering a period that ranges from the  conclusion of the Second World War to the wave of social unrest at the end of the 1960s, this seminar  examines how European architectural culture responded to transformations of the postwar years.		

CAS AH 587: Green Design
           			This seminar explores the historical context for issues of sustainability and green architecture from the  eighteenth century to the present, charted through questions of landscape theory, public park making,  suburbanization, adaptive re-use, and new materials and methods of construction.		

CAS AH 589: Topics in Nineteenth-Century Art
           			Topic for Spring 2014: Seminar: Impressionism through Symbolism. Major currents in nineteenth-century  European art are examined in light of contemporary developments in politics, science, religion, literature,  music, and the history of ideas.		

CAS AH 591: Seminar in Photographic History
           			Topic for Spring 2013: Documentary Photography. Changing uses, definitions, and archives of  documentary photography from 1839 to the present. Topics include urban photography, war imagery,  topographical and survey landscapes, architectural records, social reform photography, New Deal imagery,  and digital documents.		

CAS AI 101: Introduction to Asian Studies
           			Mini-seminar to analyze and integrate students' coursework of the Asian Studies Major. Student  presentations on relevant events outside coursework; reading and discussion focused on current issues in  Asian studies. Required of all Asian Studies majors.		

CAS AM 200: Introduction to American Studies
	An exploration of the multi-faceted themes of American society and culture in selected historical periods  using a variety of approaches to interpret such topics as American art, literature, politics, material culture,  and the mass media. Required of majors and minors. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS AM 250: American Arts and Society
	Investigates key issues and themes in American arts and letters. Topic for Spring 2015: Cold War and Consensus in 1950s America. Explores the tensions between domestic ideals and fractured reality in Cold  War America. Combining film study, literary criticism, material culture, and cultural history, students gain a  thorough, interdisciplinary understanding of the 1950s. Topics include Elvis Presley, McCarthyism, suburbia, and Disneyland.		

CAS AM 301: Perspectives on the American Experience
	American history and society as viewed by those who made it. Topic for Fall 2014: America on Television.  An exploration of the ways American culture and people are represented on television, how those  representations evolve over time, and the way television representations influence public debate over  important social and political issues.		

CAS AM 313: Internships in Public History
CAS AM 369: American Folk Art
	Explores the objects that collectors and museums identify as "American Folk Art." Examines how this label  developed throughout the twentieth century; familiarizes students with major collections and genres  including painting, sculpture, textiles, and other media. Also offered as CAS AH 369.		

CAS AM 376: Housing America
	What do dwellings say about the diversity of American experience? For over four centuries and across a  continent, wealth and poverty, family and community, taste and technology have all shaped the meaning of  home. Illustrated lecturers supplemented by field trips. Also offered as CAS AH 376.		

CAS AM 501: Special Topics in American Studies
	Topic for Fall 2014: Reading Boston: Conversations about the Real and Imagined City. Team-taught by  English (Howell) and History of Art & Architecture (Morgan) professors. Multidisciplinary examination of  Boston from Wampanoag settlement to the present. Explores how specific neighborhoods have developed  and how they have been presented in literature. Includes frequent site visits around Boston. Serves as AM  capstone.		

CAS AM 502: Special Topics in American Studies
	Topic for Spring 2015: American Baseball. This interdisciplinary research seminar examines the history, culture, and science of the game from its shadowy origins in the early days of the nineteenth century, explosive growth in popularity during the Jazz Age, to the controversy-ridden Steroid Era.		

CAS AM 524: New England Cultural Landscapes
	Examines the historic forces that have shaped the distinctive regional landscapes of New England and  catalogues the changing forms that make up those landscapes. Also offered as CAS AH 525.		

CAS AM 546: Places of Memory: Historic Preservation Theory and Practice
	Covers key aspects of the history, theory, and practice of historic preservation. Preservation will be discussed in the context of cultural history and the changing relationship between existing buildings and landscapes and attitudes toward history, memory, invented tradition, and place. 		

CAS AM 553: Documenting Historic Buildings and Landscapes
           			A seminar designed to train students in architectural research techniques through supervised reading,  fieldwork, and writing. Students are introduced to the skills needed to conduct research on both individual  resources and groups of resources, clustered within an area or scattered throughout a community. Also  offered as CAS AH 553.		

CAS AN 101: Introduction to Cultural Anthropology
	An introduction to the basic concepts, principles, and problems of cultural anthropology, emphasizing study of both traditional and complex societies. Special attention to the evolution of human societies and culture; the changing organization and meaning of religion, economic life, kinship, and political order; and the problem of cultural variation in the modern world. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS AN 102: Human Biology, Behavior, and Evolution
	Biology relevant to the behavioral sciences. Introduces basic principles of evolutionary biology, animal  social behavior, primate adaptions, human origins, genetic/hormonal/neural bases of behavior, and issues  of human socioecology and adaptions. Discussions highlight nature-vs-nurture issues. Carries natural  science divisional credit (with lab) in CAS. 		

CAS AN 103: Anthropology Through Ethnography
	Examines the diversity of human lifeways and cultures across a variety of societies and through time, as well as the social processes that shape individuals. Seminar-style introduction to social anthropology through reading of ethnography, with discussion and debate. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS AN 210: Medical Anthropology
	Examines the influence of culture on health care beliefs, practices, and institutions. Special topics include cross-cultural approaches to birth, aging, and death; drug use and abuse; health care in developing countries; and socialist models of health-care service. 		

CAS AN 220: Urban Anthropology
	Survey of urban phenomena in evolutionary perspective using illustrative materials from records of the past and from current description in all world areas; contrasting social processes under different historical, geographical, political, and economic circumstances. 		

CAS AN 240: Legal Anthropology
	An introduction to the anthropologist's approaches to law. Investigation of the relationship among society, culture, and law focuses on how different societies generate and structure competition and conflict. Examines the range of social and symbolic mechanisms for regulating dispute. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS AN 250: Understanding Folklore and Folklife
	The ways individuals, families, and communities express themselves, their beliefs, and their values within their own culture. Emphasis on meaning carried by oral literature, folk arts and crafts, social customs and festivals, and family folklore. 		

CAS AN 252: Ethnicity and Identity
	Political and cultural factors underlying ethnic and nationalist sentiments examined through case studies drawn from Europe, the Middle East, and Asia. Discusses factors underlying ethnic boundaries, as well as such boundary-transcending influences as the media. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS AN 260: Sex and Gender in Anthropological Perspective
	Cross-cultural examination of changing gender roles, expectations, and activities. Focuses on economic, social, political, and ideological determinants that structure the hierarchy of power and privileges accorded the thoughts, activities, and experiences of women and men in various societies. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS AN 263: The Behavioral Biology of Women
	An exploration of female behavioral biology focusing on evolutionary, physiological, and biosocial aspects of women's lives from puberty through pregnancy, birth, lactation, menopause, and aging. Examples are drawn from traditional and industrialized societies, and data from nonhuman primates are considered.		

CAS AN 285: Coping with Crisis in Contemporary Africa (area)
           			Explores the ways ordinary Africans are coping with problems of security, environmental degradation, forced migration, economic decline, and disease. Readings and lectures contrast outsiders' interpretations of these "crises" with the way they are experienced by those they affect. 		

CAS AN 290: Children and Culture
	Explores the way various cultures shape the lives and social development of children. Topics include cultural concepts of childhood; the acquisition of culture; socialization and moral development; cognition, emotion, and behavior in childhood; children's language and play; and the cultural shaping of personality. 		

CAS AN 307: Turkey and Middle East in Comparative Perspective (area)
	Social and cultural diversity of the modern Middle East with particular attention to Turkey. Focus on the interplay of tradition and socio-economic changes that have occured during the twentieth century and their implications for the future.		

CAS AN 308: Food, Culture, and Society
	Study of foodways, culinary social history, and diet and food ecology with special attention to Asian societies and Boston's food culture. Examines the use of food and cuisine as a focus for identity, national development, and social change. 		

CAS AN 309: Boston: An Ethnographic Approach (area)
	An anthropological study of Boston using the city as a site of recovery and discovery as students develop   ethnographic skills and an understanding of the interplay between geography, history, and demography in   the social mapping of urban spaces.		

CAS AN 310: Studies in North American Ethnography (area)
	A survey including an appreciation of the traditional background and heritage of native North Americans,  and analysis of the history and contact with Europeans and governmental policies, and an examination and  evaluation of the contemporary situation.		

CAS AN 312: Peoples and Cultures of Africa (area)
	Survey of the continent with attention to ethnohistory, traditional cultures, and cultural change.		

CAS AN 314: Cultures of Latin America (area)
	From the effects of European colonization to the causes of transnational migration, anthropologists have  found Latin America a rich place to study key themes for the discipline. Contemporary ethnography is used  to trace the region's contribution to anthropological debates.		

CAS AN 316: Contemporary European Ethnography (area)
           			Approaches Europe and European societies through an exploration of significant social shifts: the creation  of the European Union, the decline of the national welfare state, the rise of regionalist movements, and the  socio-political transformation of post-socialist states. 		

CAS AN 317: Power and Society in the Middle East (area)
	Peoples and cultures of the Middle East from Afghanistan to Morocco and from the Caucasus to Yemen. Focuses on social organization, family structure, the relationship between the sexes, and the development and maintenance of authority.		

CAS AN 318: Southeast Asia: Tradition and Development (area)
	Provides an in-depth introduction to the cultural traditions and contemporary development of Southeast Asia. Examines the contemporary society and culture through the optic of political and cultural history, so as to understand the "imaginative revolutions" that have shaped this region and are transforming it still today.  		

CAS AN 319: Anthropology of Muslim Cultures and Politics (area)
           			Examines Muslim societies' ongoing struggle over the forms and meanings of Muslim culture and politics,  as well as its implications for religious authority, gender ideals, and new notions of citizenship, civil  society, and democracy.  		

CAS AN 320: Women in the Muslim World
	A cross-cultural approach to the diversity and complexity of women's lives in the Muslim world, including  the United States.  Looks at issues such as gender equality, civil society and democracy, sex segregation  and sexual politics, kinship and marriage, and veiling. 		

CAS AN 331: Human Origins
           			Introduction to human paleontology and methods for reconstructing the   ancestry, structure, diet, and behavior of fossil primates and humans.   Survey of primate and hominid fossils, primate comparative anatomy,   radioactive dating, molecular and structural phylogenies, climactic   analyses, and comparative behavioral ecology. 		

CAS AN 334: Evolutionary Psychology
           			Critical analysis of human behavior from an evolutionary perspective. Emphasis placed on viewing humans as products of biological evolution. Topics include evolution of language and intelligence, cultural evolution, sex and reproduction, kinship and family dynamics, cooperation, aggression, warfare, and status.		

CAS AN 335: The Ape Within: Great Apes and the Evolution of Human Behavior
           			Introduction to primate social behavior, focusing on the apes. Examines how great ape behavior helps understand what is unique about human behavior and how we evolved. Topics include diet, social relationships, sexual behavior, aggression, culture,and cognition.		

CAS AN 336: Primate Evolutionary Ecology
           			Introduction to the various theoretical approaches to understanding the evolutionary ecology of wild primates. Topics include functional anatomy, genetic approaches to mating systems, demography, behavioral ecology, community ecology, and conservation.		

CAS AN 337: Creation and Evolution
	A critical survey of the creation/evolution controversy in its historical, scientific, philosophical, and theological contexts from Augustine down to the intelligent-design movement.		

CAS AN 338: Lucy: The Oldest Woman
           			This course brings to life the 3.18 million year-old fossil "Lucy." What was life like for one of our oldest  female ancestors and how do we know? How did she move? What did she eat? Could she talk?		

CAS AN 339: Primate Biomechanics
           			An introduction to the physical principles and anatomies underlying primate behavior, especially locomotion. Topics include mechanics, skeletal anatomy, primate locomotion, and the primate fossil record. Emphasis on bone biology and human bipedalism.		

CAS AN 344: Modern Japanese Society: Family, School, and Workplace (area)
	Approaches contemporary Japanese society through a focus on family, school, and workplace. The readings and lectures treat these institutions historically and in terms of the contexts they provide for the individual. 		

CAS AN 345: Moving Experiences: Cultures of Tourism and Travel
           			The movement of people across national boundaries as a cultural, economic, and  political phenomenon. Examines voluntary border-crossing in its various cultural and historical meanings as well as in the representations of journals and contemporary accounts.		

CAS AN 347: Afghanistan (area)
CAS AN 351: Language, Culture, and Society
	Introduction to basic concepts, problems, and methods used by anthropologists in the investigation of relationships among language, culture, and society. Topics include language and conceptual systems, language and role, language and social context, and language and thought. 		

CAS AN 355: Religious Fundamentalism in Anthropological Perspective
	Anthropological study of the global phenomenon of religious fundamentalism. A product of the modern world, fundamentalism is perceived as counter-cultural and anti-nationalist. Cases drawn from North America and the Islamic Middle East, with special attention to women's interpretation of religion. 		

CAS AN 363: Food and Water: Critical Perspectives on Global Crises
	The multiple causes and consequences of global food and water crises. Examines production, consumption, and distribution of food, and studies a range of water management systems--and the politics of water--in different parts of the world.   		

CAS AN 371: Political Anthropology of the Modern World
	Examines the concepts of political anthropology and applies them to the analysis of the origins and development of the modern political world. Special attention to nations and nationalism, the state and modern development, comparative political culture, and urban and agrarian political change. 		

CAS AN 372: Psychological Anthropology
	Introduces students to some key theoretical perspectives and controversies in the cross-cultural study of psychology. Readings from classic texts and cross-cultural studies of emotion, sexuality, concepts of the person, national character, consciousness, authority, and religion.		

CAS AN 375: Culture, Society, and Religion in South Asia (area)
	Ethnographic and historical introduction to the Indian subcontinent with a focus on the impact of religion  on cultural practices and social institutions.		

CAS AN 379: China: Tradition and Transition (area)
	Examines daily life in China and Taiwan, tracing how opposed economic and political paths transformed a common tradition. Topics include capitalism and socialism; politics and social control; dissidence; gender relations; religion, arts, and literature; and pollution. 		

CAS AN 384: Anthropology of Religion
           			Myth, ritual, and religious experience across cultures. Special attention to the problem of religious  symbolism and meaning, religious conversion and revitalization, contrasts between traditional and world  religions, and the relation of religious knowledge to science, magic, and ideology. Also offered as CAS RN  387.		

CAS AN 397: Anthropological Film and Photography
	Considers the history and development of anthropological, ethnographic, and transcultural filmmaking. In-depth examination of important anthropological films in terms of methodologies, techniques, and strategies of expression; story, editing, narration, themes, style, content, art, and aesthetics.		

CAS AN 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS AN 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS AN 438: Ethnography of American Culture (area)
	Provides a theoretical basis for the anthropological investigation of American culture. After an introduction to the classical literature, readings focus on the suburban experience, sexuality and family life, and class in the contemporary United States.		

CAS AN 461: Ethnography and Anthropological Theory I
           			Discussion and analysis of major concepts, methods, and theories in social anthropology using case studies on ritual, politics, leadership, social control, and kinship belief. 		

CAS AN 462: Ethnography and Anthropological Theory II
           			Required of majors. Examines the background and philosophy of current anthropological theory and method. Discussion focuses on current issues in evolutionary, linguistic, and sociocultural theory. 		

CAS AN 491: Directed Study in Anthropology
           			Individual instruction and directed research in anthropology.		

CAS AN 492: Directed Study in Anthropology
           			Individual instruction and directed research in anthropology.		

CAS AN 505: Asian Development: The Case of Women (area)
	How women's lives in China, Japan, and India have been affected by economic development and social change. Women's education, health, child rearing, and labor force participation are considered in the context of socioeconomic and cultural influences. 		

CAS AN 510: Proposal Writing for Social Science Research
		The purpose of this course is to turn students' intellectual interests into answerable, field-based research   questions. The goal is the production of a project proposal for future research. Also offered as CAS AR  510.		

CAS AN 515: Authenticity and Identity
	Explores the idea of the authentic self in Western culture in readings from authors such as Montesquieu, Hegel, Rousseau, Diderot, Molière, and Nietzsche. Historical and cross-cultural perspective is provided through examples from medieval Europe, Pakistan, America, Bali, and China.		

CAS AN 521: Sociolinguistics
CAS AN 524: Seminar: Language and Culture Contacts in Contemporary Africa
           			Focuses on language variation and change in Africa. Provides students with a foundation in the  scholarship on contact linguistics, language variation and change, and the relationships between language  variation and gender, ethnicity, religion, and youth culture.		

CAS AN 532: Literacy and Islam in Africa
           			Examines the Islamization of Africa and the development of local literary traditions. Students learn about the sources of knowledge called Ajami (African texts written in the Arabic script) and gain a deeper understanding of the spread of Islam and its Africanization throughout the continent. Selected texts written by enslaved Africans in the Americas are also examined.   		

CAS AN 541: Modernity Seminar I
	This seminar looks at the phenomenon of modernity from a multidisciplinary point of view. Discussed  are the cultural foundations of modernity, specifically and primarily nationalism but also Romanticism, science, and major political ideologies. Also analyzed are modernization and development as studied by  the social sciences, modernism, and postmodernism in literary and cultural studies; and the nature of human beings and society in the perspectives of modern philosophy. Also offered as CAS SO 541. Either or both of AN 541 and AN 543 may be taken for credit.  		

CAS AN 543: Modernity Seminar II
	This seminar looks at the phenomenon of modernity from a multidisciplinary point of view. Discussed  are the cultural foundations of modernity, specifically and primarily nationalism but also Romanticism,  science, and major political ideologies. Also analyzed are modernization and development as studied by  the social sciences, modernism, and postmodernism in literary and cultural studies; and the nature of  man and society in the perspectives of modern philosophy. May be taken either or both semesters.  Also offered as CAS SO 543. Either or both of AN 541 and AN 543 may be taken for credit. 		

CAS AN 548: Muslim Societies: An Interdisciplinary History (area)
           			Examines the states, empires, faiths, and ideologies of the Muslim world over a 1500-year period,  including states from North and West Africa, through the Middle East, to Turkey, Iran, and then to Central  and Southeast Asia. Also offered as CAS AH 539, CAS HI 596, and CAS RN 563. 		

CAS AN 549: Savagery Fact, Fiction, and Factual Fiction
	Imaginings about animalistic humans, much changed over time, are compared against real cultures and  societies. Looking beyond "savagery within civilization" and vice versa, an examination of episodes of  romantic stereotyping and of "barbaric" interaction, for motives and for strategies of resolution.		

CAS AN 550: Human Skeleton
		Function, development, variation, and pathologies of the human musculoskeletal system, emphasizing issues of human evolution. Basic processes of bone biology and how they are affected by use, age, sex, diet, and disease. Meetings are predominantly lab oriented. 		

CAS AN 551: Anthropology and Human Heredity
           			Surveys the theory and methods of evolutionary genetics as applied to human evolution and human diversity. Emphasizes human evolution as illuminated by genetics, as well as the intersection of human genetics with social issues such as racism, bioethics, and eugenics.		

CAS AN 552: Primate Evolution and Anatomy
           			The evolutionary history of the primate radiation--particularly that of monkeys, apes, and humans--is examined through investigation of the musculoskeletal anatomy of living and fossil primates. Comparative and biomechanical approaches are used to reconstruct the behavior of extinct species.  		

CAS AN 556: The Evolution of the Human Diet
           			An investigation of human dietary evolution including primate and human dietary adaptations, nutritional requirements, optimal foraging, digestive physiology, maternal and infant nutrition, hunting and cooking in human evolution, and impacts of food processing and agriculture on modern diets and health.		

CAS AN 557: Anthropology of Mental Health
           			Considers mental illness from an anthropological point of view, including cultural, biological, and evolutionary perspectives. Focuses on the interaction of biology and culture in major mental disorders. Consideration is given to ethnomedical practices of healing mental illness.		

CAS AN 558: Human Sex Differences: Behavior, Biology, and Ecology
           			Why are men and women different? Adopts an evolutionary, adaptive approach to investigate sex differences in human behavior, physiology, and cognition from developmental, mechanistic, and phylogenetic perspectives. Topics include sex differences in aggression, mate choice, parenting, affiliation, and cognition.		

CAS AN 563: Public Religion and Politics Across Cultures
           			The contested role of religion in modern politics and its implications for civil life. Begins with the West and includes Islam in the Middle East and SE Asia. Evangelicalism in Latin American and Africa, Hindu nationalism, and Buddhism in China. Also offered as CAS IR 563.		

CAS AN 568: Symbol, Myth, and Rite
	Historical overview of ritual behavior, the role of symbolism in the study of culture, and the narrative quality of worldview and belief. Emphasis on verbal performance and public display events in specific cultural contexts. 		

CAS AN 570: Lovers and Leaders: The Anthropology of Romance and Charisma
	A comparison of theories of charismatic leadership and romantic love from sociology and psychology. Case studies from literature are discussed for illustration and comparison.		

CAS AN 571: Anthropology of Emotion
           			Outlines multidisciplinary conceptual frameworks for the study of emotion. Focus is on how cultural  anthropology has understood emotion as experience, as cognition, or as a symbolic system.		

CAS AN 573: The Ethnography of China and Taiwan (area)
           			Reading of major ethnographies and modern histories as a basis for examining changing Taiwanese and  Chinese culture and society. Attention to ethnography as a genre, as well as to the dramatic changes of the  past century.		

CAS AN 585: Seminar: Advanced Readings in African Ethnography
CAS AN 596: Anthropology and History
	Examines the use of ethnographic materials and models of alternative social or economic organization to interpret historical materials as well as the use of history to provide dynamic models of change in anthropological analysis.		

CAS AN 597: Seminar: Special Topics in Biological Anthropology
	Special issues and debates in current biological anthropology. Topic for Fall 2014: Human Grown  and Development. An analysis of human growth and development from an evolutionary and cross-cultural  perspective. Other topics include brain evolution, fetal programming, sexual dimorphism, senescence,  immunity, and obesity.		

CAS AN 598: Seminar: Special Issues in Biological Anthropology
           			Special issues and debates in current biological anthropology. 		

CAS AR 100: Great Discoveries in Archaeology
	Illustrated lectures focus on the important discoveries of the discipline of archaeology. Course covers the whole of human prehistory and history around the world. Archaeological methods are described, along with the great ancient sites: Olduvai, Lascaux, Stonehenge, Egyptian pyramids, Machu Picchu, etc. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS AR 101: Introduction to Archaeology
	Theory, methods, and aims of prehistoric and historical archaeology in the Old and New Worlds. Excavation and recovery of archaeological data; dating techniques; interpretation of finds; relation of archaeology to history and other disciplines. Examination of several Old and New World cultures. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS AR 200: Heritage Matters: Introduction to Heritage Management
	Protection and management of archaeological heritage, including sites, artifacts, and monuments. Survey  of heritage values and stakeholders. Issues covered include cultural policy and legislation, U.S.  preservation system, international efforts, indigenous perspectives, looting, repatriation, underwater  heritage, and heritage at war. Carries social sciences divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS AR 201: Americas Before Columbus
	An introduction to the archaeology and civilizations of pre-Columbian Americas. Topics progress  chronologically as well as comparatively, with cases drawn from Native American cultures of North America, Mesoamerica, and South America.		

CAS AR 205: Origins of Civilization
	The comparison of origins and institutions of civilizations in the Old and New Worlds, including the first state-organized societies of Mesopotamia, Egypt, the Indus Valley, China, Mesoamerica, and Peru. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS AR 206: Ancient Technology
	Traces the related evolution of technology and culture over the first million years of human existence. Case studies focus on the interaction between early technology and social structure, values, and institutions. Lectures and hands-on experience with ceramics, stone, and metallurgy. 		

CAS AR 208: Lost Languages and Decipherments
	An overview of the archaeology of writing focusing on modern decipherments of ancient texts. Related topics include characteristics of the world's major language families, the nature of linguistic change, and the origin and history of the alphabet. 		

CAS AR 209: The Near Eastern Bronze Age
	Examines the wealth and power of the ancient Near East and Egypt during the middle and late Bronze Age. Topics include the establishment of power, long distance exchange and interaction, ethnicity, architecture, and environmental and ecological factors affecting the civilizations.		

CAS AR 210: Minoan and Mycenaean Civilizations
	Traces the rise and fall of the Minoan and Mycenaean civilizations from their Stone Age roots to the end of the Bronze Age. Subjects include art, architecture, economic, social, political, and religious characteristics, and theoretical explanations of cultural change. 		

CAS AR 215: The Contested Past
	Examination of the diverse and often conflicting values associated with archaeological objects, ancient monuments, and cultural sites. Case studies (including the Elgin Marbles) highlight contemporary controversies over ownership, appropriation, use, and abuse of the material remains of the past.		

CAS AR 222: Art and Architecture of Ancient America
	Introduction to the cities, monuments, and major art styles of the Aztec, the Maya, the Inca, and their  predecessors in ancient Mesoamerica and the Andes from the first millennium BCE to the sixteenth  century. 		

CAS AR 230: Introduction to Greek & Roman Archaeology
	How material remains help us understand aspects of Ancient Greek and Roman cultures in their historical  development: religious and civic spaces; the culture of affluence; imperial identity; and the transformations  that mark the end of classical antiquity. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS AR 232: Archaeology of Ancient Egypt
	The technology, economy, social life, political organization, religions, art, and architecture of Egypt from   Predynastic times through the Hellenistic period, based on archaeological and historical sources. Emphasis   on the period of the pharaohs (ca. 3000-323 BCE). Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS. Also offered   as CAS AH 232. 		

CAS AR 240: Archaeology of Ancient China
	Examines the archaeology of ancient China from the Neolithic through the Bronze Age (7000 to 221 BCE)  with particular attention to the interactions between technology and the acquisition of political, religious,  and social power. 		

CAS AR 251: Ancient Maya Civilization
	A survey of current knowledge and scholarship about the Maya civilization, which flourished in Central  America between 250-900 CE, its earlier beginnings and subsequent collapse, and aspects of its economic  and social basis and artistic and intellectual achievements. 		

CAS AR 283: North American Archaeology
	North American prehistory from initial peopling of continent to development of complex societies.  Explores human entry into the New World; migration across North America; subsistence changes; human  effects on landscape; encounters with Europeans; role of archaeology in contemporary native cultures.		

CAS AR 290: Human Impacts on Ancient Environments
	Examination of human impacts on the global landscape over the past 10,000 years through migration,hunting, disease, agriculture, and other cultural activities; implications for contemporary and future  resource management and environmental policy.		

CAS AR 307: Archaeological Science
           			Application of natural sciences, as an integral part of modern archaeology, to issues of dating, reconstructing past environments and diets, and analysis of mineral and biological remains. Laboratories concentrate on biological, geological, physical, and chemical approaches.		

CAS AR 342: Archaeology in the Holy Land
           			In Israel, archaeology is part of current events. The study of remains from the Israelite to the Muslim  conquests (c. 1200 BCE -- 640 CE) to learn how material evidence created and still plays a role in a larger  historical drama. Also offered as CAS RN 390.		

CAS AR 343: Anatolian Archaeology
	A historically-oriented survey of the material remains of the ancient cultures of Turkey and northwest Iran  from the Neolithic to the Hellenistic period. Emphasis is on the Hittite Empire and civilizations that  succeeded it in the first millennium BCE.		

CAS AR 346: Seminar: The Archaeology of Ancient Egypt
           			Examines the prehistoric and early historical origins of ancient Egyptian civilization, major institutions of the culture, and culture changes through time. Topics studied include changing socio-political organization, demography and the economic system, and beliefs/religion.		

CAS AR 348: Gods, Graves and Pyramids: Ancient Egyptian Religion and Ritual
	This course provides an understanding of the beliefs of the ancient Egyptians, based on a synthesis of the  data: archaeological, architectural, and textual.		

CAS AR 370: Archaeology of Colonial America
	Introduction to the archaeology of American life in the colonial period. A consideration of the material culture of early America, including architecture, artifacts, complete sites, and the use of archaeology to confirm or modify the written record. 		

CAS AR 371: Archaeology of Postcolonial America
           			The archaeology of America from the Revolution to the present. Deals with the social history, industry, and material culture of recent and modern Americans. 		

CAS AR 390: The Archaeology of Southeast Asia
	Examines the prehistoric and historic cultures of Southeast Asia, including the first arrival of humans,  regional Neolithic and Bronze Age communities, early states, maritime trading networks, as well as political  motivations in archaeology and the illicit antiquities trade.		

CAS AR 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS AR 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS AR 430: The End of Days: Analyzing Collapse in Complex Societies
           			Seminar on the archaeology, anthropology, mythology, and history of collapse in complex societies.  Provides students with an in-depth understanding of major issues and challenges in studying the  dissolution and reformulation of complex societies in the ancient world.		

CAS AR 435: Topics in the Materiality of Ancient Mediterranean Religions
           			Investigates material traces and contexts of religion in the Greco-Roman world, including iconic,  architectural, votive, magical, and other archaeological remains; and draws on theories of space, image,  and ritual performance. Topics vary. Also offered as CAS RN 490.		

CAS AR 438: Seminar: Pompeii
           			An in-depth study of Pompeii and the other towns buried by Mount Vesuvius. All aspects of the Vesuvian  cities are examined, including urban planning and public architecture, private domestic and funerary  architecture, mural painting, mosaics, and sculpture. Also offered as CAS AH 438.		

CAS AR 450: Methods and Theory of Archaeology
           			An interdisciplinary course dealing with field and laboratory techniques, research methods, concepts and problems in archaeological theory, and formulation of research designs. 		

CAS AR 480: Archaeological Ethics and the Law
           			Ethical and legal issues for archaeologists. Topics include archaeology as a public interest; legal organization of archaeology; international approaches to heritage management; looting, collecting, and the antiquities market; maritime law and underwater archaeology; and cultural resource management in the United States. 		

CAS AR 491: Directed Study in Archaeology
           			Individual instruction and directed research in archaeology.		

CAS AR 492: Directed Study in Archaeology
           			Individual instruction and directed research in archaeology.		

CAS AR 503: Archaeological Field Methods: Survey and Excavation
CAS AR 307: Archaeological Science
           			Application of natural sciences, as an integral part of modern archaeology, to issues of dating, reconstructing past environments and diets, and analysis of mineral and biological remains. Laboratories concentrate on biological, geological, physical, and chemical approaches.		

CAS AR 342: Archaeology in the Holy Land
           			In Israel, archaeology is part of current events. The study of remains from the Israelite to the Muslim  conquests (c. 1200 BCE -- 640 CE) to learn how material evidence created and still plays a role in a larger  historical drama. Also offered as CAS RN 390.		

CAS AR 343: Anatolian Archaeology
	A historically-oriented survey of the material remains of the ancient cultures of Turkey and northwest Iran  from the Neolithic to the Hellenistic period. Emphasis is on the Hittite Empire and civilizations that  succeeded it in the first millennium BCE.		

CAS AR 346: Seminar: The Archaeology of Ancient Egypt
           			Examines the prehistoric and early historical origins of ancient Egyptian civilization, major institutions of the culture, and culture changes through time. Topics studied include changing socio-political organization, demography and the economic system, and beliefs/religion.		

CAS AR 348: Gods, Graves and Pyramids: Ancient Egyptian Religion and Ritual
	This course provides an understanding of the beliefs of the ancient Egyptians, based on a synthesis of the  data: archaeological, architectural, and textual.		

CAS AR 370: Archaeology of Colonial America
	Introduction to the archaeology of American life in the colonial period. A consideration of the material culture of early America, including architecture, artifacts, complete sites, and the use of archaeology to confirm or modify the written record. 		

CAS AR 371: Archaeology of Postcolonial America
           			The archaeology of America from the Revolution to the present. Deals with the social history, industry, and material culture of recent and modern Americans. 		

CAS AR 390: The Archaeology of Southeast Asia
	Examines the prehistoric and historic cultures of Southeast Asia, including the first arrival of humans,  regional Neolithic and Bronze Age communities, early states, maritime trading networks, as well as political  motivations in archaeology and the illicit antiquities trade.		

CAS AR 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS AR 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS AR 430: The End of Days: Analyzing Collapse in Complex Societies
           			Seminar on the archaeology, anthropology, mythology, and history of collapse in complex societies.  Provides students with an in-depth understanding of major issues and challenges in studying the  dissolution and reformulation of complex societies in the ancient world.		

CAS AR 435: Topics in the Materiality of Ancient Mediterranean Religions
           			Investigates material traces and contexts of religion in the Greco-Roman world, including iconic,  architectural, votive, magical, and other archaeological remains; and draws on theories of space, image,  and ritual performance. Topics vary. Also offered as CAS RN 490.		

CAS AR 438: Seminar: Pompeii
           			An in-depth study of Pompeii and the other towns buried by Mount Vesuvius. All aspects of the Vesuvian  cities are examined, including urban planning and public architecture, private domestic and funerary  architecture, mural painting, mosaics, and sculpture. Also offered as CAS AH 438.		

CAS AR 450: Methods and Theory of Archaeology
           			An interdisciplinary course dealing with field and laboratory techniques, research methods, concepts and problems in archaeological theory, and formulation of research designs. 		

CAS AR 480: Archaeological Ethics and the Law
           			Ethical and legal issues for archaeologists. Topics include archaeology as a public interest; legal organization of archaeology; international approaches to heritage management; looting, collecting, and the antiquities market; maritime law and underwater archaeology; and cultural resource management in the United States. 		

CAS AR 491: Directed Study in Archaeology
           			Individual instruction and directed research in archaeology.		

CAS AR 492: Directed Study in Archaeology
CAS AR 506: Regional Archaeology and Geographical Information Systems (GIS)
		Use of advanced computer (GIS) techniques to address regional archaeological problems.This applied course examines digital encoding and manipulation of archaeological and environmental data, and methods for testing hypotheses, analyzing, and modeling the archaeological record.		

CAS AR 507: Lay of the Land: Surface and Subsurface Mapping in Archaeology
           			This course integrates classroom, lab, and field instruction to provide students with understanding and  practical field skills in archaeological surface and subsurface mapping. Coverage includes point-based  surveying, ground-based and photogrammetric surface modeling, aerial image digitization, and  archaeogeophysical prospection.		

CAS AR 509: Geoarchaeology
		Lecture/laboratory course illustrating the use of geological concepts and methods in the study of archaeological problems. Topics include: stratigraphy and stratigraphic principles, geological environments and earth-surface processes, anthropogenic sediments, archaeological materials and their analysis, and the formation of archaeological sites. Field trips in the Boston area. 		

CAS AR 510: Proposal Writing for Social Science Research
		The purpose of this course is to turn students' intellectual interests into answerable, field-based research   questions. The goal is the production of a project proposal for future research. Also offered as CAS AN  510.		

CAS AR 534: Seminar in Roman Art
	In-depth examination of varying topics in the study of Roman art and architecture. Topics vary annually.  Also offered as CAS AH 534.		

CAS AR 551: Studies in Mesoamerican Archaeology
           			Analysis of major events and processes of the Mesoamerican area. Topics include rise of towns, temples,  and urbanism; the origin of state; and the development of empires.		

CAS AR 556: Archaeological Field Research Experience
           			Supervised original research in excavation, survey, or field laboratory situation, as part of field study  program.		

CAS AR 570: Studies in Historical Archaeology
	Topics vary. Intensive coverage of particular aspects of historical archaeology as selected by instructor. (Course fulfills department area or technical requirement.)		

CAS AR 577: Pots and Pans: The Material Culture of Cookery & Dining
	Exploration of food cultures and technologies through utensils for food preparation and consumption;  kitchens from prehistory to present; tradition and fashion in cooking and dining vessels; cooking  technology; utensils as metaphors and symbols. Ranges broadly across cultures, time, and space.		

CAS AR 590: Life Is a Bowl: Ceramic Studies in Archaeology
           			Before plastic, there was pottery -- pots and pans, cups and dishes, crocks and jars -- in every culture and  in abundance. Research seminar studies pottery across time and space to elucidate personal habits as well as social, economic, and political developments.		

CAS AR 593: Memory in 3-D: Memorials, Then and Now
           			Societies craft their histories and identities via memorials, thereby firming up the past for the future. In this course, we analyze the historical context, form, and message of important memorials in classical antiquity and modern America. 		

CAS AS 100: Cosmic Controversies
	From surprise over the need to invoke Dark Matter and Dark Energy, to confusion about Pluto's being reclassified as a non-planet, this course explores how scientists explain our place in the physical universe, by focusing on some of the most current issues in modern astronomy. Topics range from the solar system, to extraterrestrial life, to the fabric of the entire universe. Carries natural science divisional credit (without lab) in CAS. 		

CAS AS 101: The Solar System
	The historical development of astronomy and the motion of the planets. The formation of the solar system. The sun and its effects on the earth. Description of the planets and the moons of our solar system  including recent results from the space program. Use of the observatory. Cannot be taken for credit in  addition to CAS AS 105. Carries natural science divisional credit (with lab) in CAS. 		

CAS AS 102: The Astronomical Universe
	The birth and death of stars. Red giants, white dwarfs, black holes. Our galaxy, the Milky Way, and other galaxies. The Big Bang and other cosmological theories of our expanding universe. Use of the observatory. Carries natural science divisional credit (with lab) in CAS. 		

CAS AS 105: Alien Worlds
	Examination of worlds within and outside our solar system. History of NASA and other space exploration  programs. Discovery and properties of hundreds of planets around other stars. Possibility of life on other  worlds. Students use telescopes to observe our solar system. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS AS 101. Carries natural science divisional credit (without lab) in CAS. 		

CAS AS 107: Life Beyond Earth
	About 10% of the planets in our Milky Way galaxy are like Earth in size and material composition. Physical laws covered in this course operate everywhere, so life may be both common and technologically advanced. Where is everybody? (This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS AS 117.)		

CAS AS 109: Cosmology
	The evolution of cosmological thought from prehistory to the present: Greek astronomy, Copernicus, Galileo, Newton, and Einstein. Motion, gravity, and the nature of space-time. The expanding universe. The early universe and Big Bang. Carries natural science divisional credit (without lab) in CAS. 		

CAS AS 202: Principles of Astronomy I
	Astronomical observing and the night sky; optics and telescopes; birth of modern astronomy; atoms, spectra and spectroscopy; planetary motion and orbits; overview of solar system; uses observatory. Intended primarily for astronomy or physics majors. Lectures and laboratories. Carries natural science divisional credit (with lab) in CAS.		

CAS AS 203: Principles of Astronomy II
CAS AS 312: Stellar and Galactic Astrophysics
           			Basic physics of radiation; spectral analysis; distances, motions, and physical properties of stars; stellar interiors and atmospheres; stellar evolution; clusters of stars; the interstellar medium; content, structure, and rotation of the Milky Way galaxy. 		

CAS AS 401: Senior Distinction Work
           					

CAS AS 402: Senior Distinction Work
           					

CAS AS 413: Extragalactic Astrophysics and Cosmology
           			Galaxies and galaxy clusters; the extragalactic distance scale and Hubble's Law; quasars and active galactic  nuclei; metrics and general relativity; distances and luminosities in cosmology. Origin of the universe: the  Big Bang, cosmic background radiation, and inflation. (Offered alternate years.)		

CAS AS 414: Solar and Space Physics
           			The Sun and Solar Wind: solar magnetic fields, sunspot cycle, active sun, corona. Interaction of the solar wind with planets and comets. Planetary Magnetospheres and Ionospheres. Aeronomy. Solar System plasma physics. Magnetic Storms and Space Weather. 		

CAS AS 441: Observational Astronomy
           			Astronomical techniques. Photometry, spectroscopy, photography, CCD imaging, and interferometry.  Statistical methods for data reduction and analysis. Strong laboratory component. Use of computers.		

CAS AS 491: Directed Studies in Astronomy
           			Devoted to an intensive study of a particular aspect of astronomy, often working with a member of the faculty on a specific research project. 		

CAS AS 492: Directed Studies in Astronomy
           			Devoted to an intensive study of a particular aspect of astronomy, often working with a member of the faculty on a specific research project. 		

CAS BB 191: Undergraduate Research in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology I
           			Laboratory research under the supervision of a faculty member. Minimum of six hours per week in the lab, not including preparation and evaluation. This course cannot be used for BMB major credit. No  more than 12 credits of undergraduate research may be counted toward the 32 courses required for graduation from CAS.		

CAS BB 192: Undergraduate Research in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology I
           			Laboratory research under the supervision of a faculty member. Minimum of six hours per week in the lab, not including preparation and evaluation. This course cannot be used for BMB major credit. No  more than 12 credits of undergraduate research may be counted toward the 32 courses required for graduation from CAS.		

CAS BB 291: Undergraduate Research in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology II
           			Laboratory research under the supervision of a faculty member. Minimum of six hours per week in the lab, not including preparation and evaluation. This course cannot be used for BMB major credit. No  more than 12 credits of undergraduate research may be counted toward the 32 courses required for graduation from CAS.		

CAS BB 292: Undergraduate Research in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology II
           			Laboratory research under the supervision of a faculty member. Minimum of six hours per week in the lab, not including preparation and evaluation. This course cannot be used for BMB major credit. No  more than 12 credits of undergraduate research may be counted toward the 32 courses required for graduation from CAS.		

CAS BB 391: Undergraduate Research in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology III
           			Laboratory research under the supervision of a faculty member. Minimum of three hours per week per  credit in the lab, not including preparation and evaluation. A maximum of 4 credits earned in  undergraduate  research courses may be counted toward the BMB major. No more than 12 credits of  undergraduate research may be counted toward the 32 courses required for graduation from CAS.		

CAS BB 392: Undergraduate Research in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology III
           			Laboratory research under the supervision of a faculty member.Minimum of three hours per week per  credit  in the lab, not including preparation and evaluation. A maximum of 4 credits earned in  undergraduate  research courses may be counted toward the BMB major. No more than 12 credits of   undergraduate research may be counted toward the 32 courses required for graduation from CAS.		

CAS BB 401: Honors Research in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
           			Independent laboratory research under the supervision of a faculty member. Minimum of 12 hours per  week in the lab, not including preparation and evaluation. Course grade is determined by laboratory  performance, oral presentation, written thesis, and defense of the thesis  before a committee of three  BMB faculty members. Successful completion of both CAS BB 401 and BB 402 may lead to a degree with  honors in the major, although only 4 of the credits may count toward the BMB major. No more than 12  credits of undergraduate research may be counted toward the 32 courses required for graduation from  CAS.		

CAS BB 402: Honors Research in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
           			Independent laboratory research under the supervision of a faculty member. Minimum of 12 hours per  week in the lab, not including preparation and evaluation. Course grade is determined by laboratory  performance, oral presentation, written thesis, and defense of the thesis  before a committee of three  BMB faculty members. Successful completion of both CAS BB 401 and BB 402 may lead to a degree with  honors in the major, although only 4 of the credits may count toward the BMB major. Students must also  present a research talk at the BMB symposium at the end of the  Spring semester of the academic year.  No more than 12 credits of undergraduate research may be  counted toward the 32 courses required for  graduation from CAS.		

CAS BI 216: Intensive Genetics
           			Advanced alternative to CAS BI 206, emphasizing depth of coverage, class discussion, and reading  research papers. Principles of classical, molecular, and evolutionary genetics derived from analytical,  molecular, and whole genome cytological evidence in animals, plants, and microorgansims. Three hours  lecture, one hour discussion.		

CAS BI 225: Behavioral Biology
           			Introduction to the genetics, physiology, neurobiology, ecology, and evolution of behavior. Topics include  gene/environment interaction, hormones and behavior, neuroethology, communication, reproductive  behavior, evolution of cooperation and altruism, cognition and brain evolution. Emphasis on integrative  analysis.		

CAS BI 230: Behavioral Endocrinology
           			Hormonal control of reproductive behaviors and social affiliation, aggression, fluid homeostasis and  feeding, biological rhythms including seasonal reproduction, stress, learning and memory, psychiatric  illness, and steroid abuse. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion. Also offered as CAS NE 230.		

CAS BI 260: Marine Biology (EBE)
           			Life in the seas: its ecology, evolution, and human impacts. Includes behavioral, physiological, structural, ecological, and evolutionary perspectives. A prerequisite for the Marine Semester. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion. 		

CAS BI 271: Reading in Biology II
           			Library research on a well-defined topic in biological sciences, chosen in conjunction with a faculty  member. Individual conferences and discussion with the faculty member are required as well as a paper  presentation. Does not carry major or minor credit in biology. 		

CAS BI 272: Reading in Biology II
           			Library research on a well-defined topic in biological sciences, chosen in conjunction with a faculty  member. Individual conferences and discussion with the faculty member are required as well as a paper  presentation. Does not carry major or minor credit in biology.		

CAS BI 281: Fundamentals of Biology 1
           			Limited to seven-year medical and dental students. Fundamentals of cell biology, molecular and Mendelian  genetics, immunology, and physiology. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, three hours lab. 		

CAS BI 282: Fundamentals of Biology 2
           			Limited to seven-year medical and dental students. Fundamentals of cell biology, molecular and Mendelian  genetics, immunology, and physiology. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, three hours lab. 		

CAS BI 291: Undergraduate Research in Biology II
           			Research in biological science for students at the sophomore level. Students design and implement a research project with a faculty member.		

CAS BI 292: Undergraduate Research in Biology II
           			Research in biological science for students at the sophomore level. Students design and implement a research project with a faculty member.		

CAS BI 302: Vertebrate Zoology (EBE)
           			Methods and principles of comparative vertebrate zoology. Phylogeny, natural history, adaptation, and taxonomy. Laboratory emphasis on correlation among structural, physiological, and evolutionary features of selected vertebrates by both dissection and experimentation. Field trips. Two hours lecture, six hours lab. 		

CAS BI 303: Evolutionary Ecology (EBE)
           			Investigation of ecological processes and patterns at the individual, population, and community level. An evolutionary approach is emphasized. Three hours lecture, three hours lab. One research paper and one daylong field trip required.		

CAS BI 306: Biology of Global Change (EBE)
           			The ecological impacts of human activity on terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. Climate change, forest decline, eutrophication, acidification, loss of species diversity, and restoration of ecosystems. Three hours lecture, three hours lab. 		

CAS BI 307: Biogeography
           			Examines the spatial distribution of plants and animals from historical, ecological, and analytical perspectives. Environmental and human influences on species distribution, abundance, and diversity are considered, as are changes resulting from past and projected climate change. Also offered as CAS GE 307.		

CAS BI 309: Evolution
           			Introduction to modern concepts, controversies, and analytical approaches in evolutionary biology. Topics include adaptation, natural and sexual selection, species and speciation, phylogenetics, comparative analysis, basic population and quantitative genetics, origin of novelty, adaptive radiation, development and evolution.		

CAS BI 311: General Microbiology (CM)
CAS BI 472: Readings in Biology
           			Intensive library research on a well-defined subject, followed by individual conferences and discussion  with a faculty member. May be taken as preparation for CAS BI 401, 402, 491, and 492. Does not carry  major or minor credit in biology.		

CAS BI 475: Urban Ecology
           			The biophysical environments and ecology of urban settlements. Key topics include the physical   environment, patterns in human population growth and development, ecosystem structure and function,   global change, urban environment pollution and management, and sustainable urban development. Also  offered as CAS GE 475.		

CAS BI 481: Molecular Biology of the Neuron
           			Topics include electrical properties of neurons, a survey of neurotransmitters, molecular structure and  function of receptors, synaptic transmission, intracellular signaling, and the molecular biology of sensory  transduction. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion.  Also offered as CAS NE 481.		

CAS BI 491: Undergraduate Research in Biology IV
           			Research in biological science for students at the senior level. Students design and implement a research project with a faculty member. A minimum of 12 hours per week in lab or field work, not including preparation or evaluation time. Research topic must be defined at the time of registration. Course grade is determined by laboratory performance and written report.		

CAS BI 492: Undergraduate Research in Biology IV
           			Research in biological science for students at the senior level. Students design and implement a research project with a faculty member. A minimum of 12 hours per week in lab or field work, not including preparation or evaluation time. Research topic must be defined at the time of registration. Course grade is to be determined by laboratory performance and written report.		

CAS BI 495: Seminar in Research
           			For research students to consider issues of ethics in science and help develop methods in data gathering, analysis, and presentation of their own research activities. Students analyze research papers, grant proposals, and their own work; a written paper and oral presentation are required. 		

CAS BI 497: Honors in Biology Seminar
           			A 2-credit weekly research seminar for students in the Honors in Biology Program. A minimum grade of B+ and a written assignment based on a research topic in one of the seminars is required to graduate with honors. Juniors enrolled in BI 497 or 498 must have a currents faculty research mentor (See the Biology website or contact the Undergraduate Program Coordinator in the Department of Biology). 		

CAS BI 498: Honors in Biology Seminar
           			A 2-credit weekly research seminar for students in the Honors in Biology Program. A minimum grade of B+  and a written assignment based on a research topic in one of the seminars is required to graduate with  honors. Juniors enrolled in BI 497 or 498 must have a currents faculty research mentor (See the Biology website or contact the Undergraduate Program Coordinator in the Department of Biology).		

CAS BI 503: Symbiosis (EBE)
           			Explores a dominant survival mechanism in the Earth's history. Emphasizes partner integration in cell evolution, metabolic basis of the associations, the ubiquity of such association in all ecosystems, and the study of key symbolic systems on Earth today, including coral reefs, mycorrhizae/plants, and lichens. Three hours lecture. 		

CAS BI 504: Advanced Evolutionary Analysis (EBE)
           			Modern concepts, controversies, and analytical approaches in evolutionary biology. Topics include  adaptation, natural and sexual selection, species and species formation, phylogenetics, origin of  evolutionary novelty, adaptive radiation, basic population and quantitative genetics, development and  evolution. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion.		

CAS BI 506: Phenotypic Plasticity
           			Explores the flexible phenotype as a product of development and target of natural   selection, and addresses the role of plasticity in ecological interactions and evolutionary   diversity.  Topics:  plasticity genetics, evolution, developmental mechanisms, functional   ecology, learning, and diversification of life. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion. 		

CAS BI 508: Behavioral Ecology (EBE)
	Examines the adaptive significance of behavior in an ecological context. Topics include the evolution of social behavior, mating systems, sexual selection, alternative reproductive behaviors, life history strategies, optimal foraging, territoriality, cooperation and conflict, host-parasite co-evolution, the ecology of communication, and comparative analyses.		

CAS BI 513: Genetics Laboratory
           			Genetic techniques such as mutant selection and screening, complementation, mapping, recombinant DNA, and chemical genetic screening are taught using the genetic model systems Escherichia coli, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and Arabidopsis thaliana. Short-term and long-term projects in which students formulate and test hypotheses.		

CAS BI 515: Population Genetics (EBE)
           			Examines the interaction of basic evolutionary processes, including mutation, natural selection, genetic drift, inbreeding, and recombination, in determining the genetic composition of populations. Covers both classic models of the modern evolutionary synthesis and newer approaches based on coalescent theory.		

CAS BI 519: Theoretical Evolutionary Ecology
           			Familiarizes students with the theory of evolutionary ecology. Students gain enough background to read  theoretical evolutionary ecology literature, do simple modeling, and move on to more complex theory. Students gain experience through homework assignments and computer labs.		

CAS BI 520: Sensory Neurobiology
           			A broad survey of sensory system function in model organisms and humans, focusing on fundamental  principles of neural processing. Topics include basic cellular transduction, neural coding, and links  between neural activity and sensory perception. Also offered as CAS  NE 520.		

CAS BI 523: Marine Urban Ecology
CAS BI 530: Forest Ecology
           			The major biotic and abiotic factors influencing forest ecosystem composition, structure, and function. Role of solar radiation, hydrology, soils, succession, and management of forest ecosystems. Includes New England case study. Three hours lecture plus discussion. Meets with CAS GE 530.		

CAS BI 531: Ichthyology: Behavior, Ecology, and Evolution of Fish (EBE)
           			A comprehensive introduction to fish biology and systematics. Emphasis on phylogenetic relationships, ecology, and behavior. Labs include morphological studies of specimens and behavioral studies of live fishes. This course is a prerequisite for the field course.		

CAS BI 535: Translational Research in AlzheimerÂs Disease
           			An introduction to translational research focused on Alzheimer's disease, with particular emphasis on the  search for new therapeutic targets, from observations of pathogenic phenotypes in patients to the  development of appropriate animal and cellular models of the disease. Also offered as CAS NE 535.		

CAS BI 539: Coral Reef Dynamics: Shallow Waters, Deep Time
           			Tropical reefs-- diverse, complex, and ancient-- exhibit lawful cycles of growth, degradation, and  regeneration. Explore these through observations on the Belize Barrier Reef in fossil reef environments and through laboratory experiments. Insights are applied to reef conservation in today's changing world. Also offered as CAS ES 539.		

CAS BI 543: Global Ecology
           			Explores the many biospheric threads that link and exchange throughout the earth. Themes include life  systems as a geological force, bacteria as a global organism, the major impacts of algae, and climate  change update. Three hours lecture.		

CAS BI 545: Neurobiology of Motivated Behavior
           			Molecular and neuroendocrine mechanisms controlling reproductive and parental behaviors, ingestive  behaviors and metabolism, and circadian rhythms, pain perception, and reward in vertebrates. Three hours  lecture plus student-led discussions of relevant research papers. Also offered as CAS NE 545.		

CAS BI 546: Marine Megafaunal Ecology: Stellwagen Bank National Marine Sanctuary and Surrounding Waters
           			Marine macrofauna: whales, seals, seabirds, fishes, turtles, jellies, and people in Stellwagen Bank National Marine Sanctuary. Evolution, food webs, and distributional ecology; physical and human influences on foraging and movement behavior. Student research builds ecosystem-based science for Sanctuary management. 		

CAS BI 550: Marine Genomics
           			Covers the evolution of genomes, the architecture of gene networks, and the connection between genotype and phenotype in marine organisms, as well as the technical development of modern genomics. Student research projects utilize modern genomics experimental approaches. 		

CAS BI 551: Biology of Stem Cells
           			Views on stem cell research range from assumptions of a potential cure for most diseases to fears that it will depreciate the value of human life. This course equips students with the science that underlies this discussion, including the biological properties of stem cells and the experimental hurdles to utilization in regenerative medicine.  		

CAS BI 552: Molecular Biology I (CM)
           			Synthesis, structure, and function of biologically important macromolecules (DNA, RNA, and proteins). Regulation and control of the synthesis of RNA and proteins. Introduction to molecular biology of eukaryotes. Discussion of molecular biological techniques, including genetics and recombinant DNA techniques. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion. 		

CAS BI 553: Molecular Biology II (CM)
           			Continuation of CAS BI 552 with emphasis on eukaryotes. General areas of focus include genome  organization, mechanisms of gene regulation, and cell signaling. Topics including genomics, mouse  transgenics systems, signal transduction, chromatin structure, and cell cycle.		

CAS BI 554: Neuroendocrinol
           			This course description is currently under construction.		

CAS BI 560: Systems Biology
           			Examines critical components of systems biology, including design principles of biological systems (e.g.,  feedback, synergy, cooperativity), and the generation and analysis of large-scale datasets (e.g., protein- protein interaction, mRNA expression).		

CAS BI 563: Sensory Biology of Aquatic Animals
           			Underwater signals, physics of signal transmission, receptors, sense organs, animal behavior. Focus on  student-generated research projects: design, animal care, data collection, analysis and presentation. A  one-month block course in the BU Marine Semester.		

CAS BI 569: Tropical Marine Invertebrates
           			Explores the diversity of marine invertebrates, including body plans, feeding biology, reproductive  strategies, and developmental programs. Field biodiversity surveys and behavioral studies in shallow water tropical marine environments, especially seagrass beds and mangrove. Part of the Marine Semester. Cannot  be taken for credit in addition to CAS BI 547. 		

CAS BI 572: Advanced Genetics
           			An in-depth study of eukaryotic genetics, ranging from the history and basic principles to current topics and modern experimental approaches.  Genetics of Drosophila, C. elegans, mice, and humans are explored in detail, including readings from primary literature. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion.		

CAS BI 581: Seminar in Biology
		Informal discussion and student reports on subjects of current interest based on an intensive study of the  literature. Topics vary. Topic for Fall 2011: The Evolution of Animal Signals. Recent advances in understanding the evolution of animal signals through theoretical and empirical studies. See Biology website for additional information.		

CAS BI 582: Seminar in Biology
		Informal discussion and student reports on subjects of current interest based on an intensive study of the  literature. Topics vary. List of approved seminars available at preregistration each semester.		

CAS BI 583: Seminar: Progress in Cell and Molecular Biology
           					

CAS BI 584: Seminar: Progress in Cell and Molecular Biology
           					

CAS BI 594: Topics in Neurobiology
           			Examines contemporary topics in neurobiological research, drawing from recent literature. Students  critically evaluate papers, assess the soundness of methods, distinguish correct from incorrect  interpretations of data, and discuss the soundness of conclusions. Topic for Fall 2012: Channelopathies:  When Ion Channels Go Bad.		

CAS BI 599: Physiology of the Synapse (PER/Neuro)
           			Structure, function, and composition of synapses in the nervous system. Topics include transmitter release  and uptake, synaptogenesis and plasticity as a cellular basis for higher brain functions such as learning  and memory. Emphasis on critical readings from primary literature. Three hours lecture, one hour  discussion.  		

CAS CC 101: Core Humanities I: The Ancient World
	Begins in the ancient Near East with the origins of Mesopotamian civilization and the Hebrew Bible. Continues with an overview of Greek civilization and careful study of Homer, Greek tragedy, Thucydides, and Plato.  		

CAS CC 102: Core Humanities II: Antiquity and the Medieval World
	Focusing on ethical themes and questions from the Western and Eastern traditions, the course includes Aristotle, Confucius, Lao Tzu, the Bhagavad Gita, Epictetus, Vergil, the Gospels, and Dante. Chronologically, the course covers the late-classical period in Greece, the rise and fall of the Roman Empire, and the medieval world.		

CAS CC 105: Core Natural Science I: The Evolution of the Physical Universe and of the Earth
	Traces the evolution of the physical universe and our scientific understanding of it. Special classes devoted to dialogue among professors in the sciences, philosophy, and theology. Topics include Big Bang theory, evolution of the stars, laws of the physical universe, evolution of the earth, and planetary ecology. Laboratory work includes night labs in the observatory.  		

CAS CC 106: Core Natural Science II: Origins
	Study of the origins of the universe, of the solar system, of the earth, of life, and of humanity. The ways in  which astronomy, earth science, biology, and anthropology investigate questions of origins, how they  consider elements such as time, what the various natural sciences have in common and where they differ. 		

CAS CC 111: Origins
	From where do we come? This course explores our understanding of the origins of the Universe, the earth,  life on earth, and human life through the various lenses of astronomy, geology, biology, and anthropology.  Carries natural sciences (with lab) divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS CC 201: Core Humanities III: The Renaissance
	From the late Middle Ages through the burgeoning of Renaissance humanism to the baroque period. The origins of modern political and scientific thought and of the comic novel. The flowering of English poetry, Petrarch, Montaigne, Rabelais, Cervantes, Shakespeare, Descartes, and Milton, as well as the music of Bach and the art of Michelangelo.		

CAS CC 202: Core Humanities IV: From the Enlightenment to Modernity
	From the philosophes and the Age of Reason through the Romantic Revolt and the  origins of modernity. Voltaire, Swift, Rousseau, the music of Mozart, Goethe's Faust, the Romantic poets, Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice, Nietzsche, and Dostoyevsky.		

CAS CC 203: Core Social Science I: Foundations of the Social Sciences
	Provides a historical framework for understanding the origins and concerns of the social sciences and the  major events and processes that have shaped the twentieth century both in the United States and around  the world. Readings are drawn from classic works of social and political theory: Aristotle, Tacitus, Ibn  Khaldun, Hobbes, Rousseau, Tocqueville, Weber, Marx, and Durkheim. 		

CAS CC 204: Core Social Science II: The Problem of Inequality
	Focuses on the problems of inequality and the response of contemporary social scientists. Topics include   psychological and sociological models of human identity, race and immigration, and contemporary   theories of justice, globalization, and the international order. The course includes significant study of   American society.		

CAS CG 111: Beginning Modern Greek 1
           			Course may not be elected by anyone with previous study of modern Greek without consent of the department. Provides a basic reading knowledge of modern Greek (demotic) and introduces students to the spoken language.		

CAS CG 112: Beginning Modern Greek 2
           			Review of grammar and syntax of modern Greek, reading in both prose and poetry, intensive oral practice.		

CAS CG 211: Intermediate Modern Greek 1
           			Intensive review of modern Greek grammar and syntax and drill material from CAS CG 111 and 112. Development of advanced oral and reading skills.		

CAS CG 212: Intermediate Modern Greek 2
CAS CG 356: The Modern Greek Novel
           			A study of representative modern Greek novels with analysis relating the author's work to the rest of his life and the situation in Greece. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS CL 356.		

CAS CH 101: General Chemistry 1
           			For science majors and minors who require a two-semester general chemistry course. Topics include:  atoms and molecules; molecular connectivity, infrared spectroscopy, and mass spectrometry;  stoichiometry and introduction to reactions in aqueous solutions; thermochemistry and the first law of  thermodynamics; quantum aspects of light and matter; and bonding in diatomic and polyatomic  molecules. Laboratory exercises include: the size of an atom, qualitative analysis, thermochemistry, and  quantum aspects of light and matter. Students must register for the following four course components:  lecture, discussion, pre-lab lecture and laboratory. Carries natural science divisional credit (with lab) in  CAS. 		

CAS CH 102: General Chemistry 2
           			For science majors and minors who require a two-semester general chemistry course. Topics include:  properties of gases; solutions and solubility; equilibrium; acids, bases, and buffers; electrochemistry;  spontaneity, free energy and the second law of thermodynamics; and chemical kinetics. Students must  have completed CAS CH 101 prior to enrolling in CAS CH 102. Students must register for the following  four course components: lecture, discussion, pre-lab lecture, and laboratory. Carries natural science  divisional credit (with lab) in CAS.		

CAS CH 109: General and Quantitative Analytical Chemistry
           			First of two-semester sequence for students concentrating in the sciences. Stoichiometry, acids, bases,  liquids, solids, solutions, equilibria, thermodynamics, kinetics, electrochemistry, atomic structure,  bonding, and selected chemical systems. Correlated laboratory experiments emphasizing quantitative  analysis. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, one hour lab lecture, four hours lab. Carries natural  science divisional credit (with lab) in CAS.		

CAS CH 110: General and Quantitative Analytical Chemistry
           			Second of two-semester sequence for students concentrating in the sciences. Stoichiometry, acids, bases,  liquids, solids, solutions, equilibria, thermodynamics, kinetics, electrochemistry, atomic structure,  bonding, and selected chemical systems. Correlated laboratory experiments emphasizing quantitative  analysis. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, one hour lab lecture, four hours lab. Carries natural  science divisional credit (with lab) in CAS.		

CAS CH 111: Intensive General and Quantitative Analytical Chemistry
           			First semester of intensive two-semester sequence for well-prepared students concentrating in chemistry or other sciences. Priority given to chemistry concentrators. Brief review of stoichiometry, gas laws; extensive consideration of equilibrium, thermodynamics, atomic and molecular structure, kinetics; application of principles to selected elements and compounds. Correlated laboratory experiments emphasizing applications of quantitative analysis. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, four hours lab. Carries natural science divisional credit (with lab) in CAS. 		

CAS CH 131: General Chemistry for the Engineering Sciences
	A one-semester, terminal general chemistry course for students who do not require a two-semester  sequence. Stoichiometry, atomic and molecular structure, bonding, chemistry of solid state, chemical  thermodynamics, and equilibrium. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, three and a half hours lab. Carries natural science divisional credit (with lab) in CAS. 		

CAS CH 171: Principles of General Chemistry
	Introduction to chemistry: separation and purification of matter, atomic theory, structure of atoms,  molecules and chemical bonding, chemical formulas, equations, stoichiometry; water, solutions,  concentration, acids, bases, pH and buffers; gases; reaction kinetics and equilibrium, and radioactivity.  Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, one hour prelab lecture, and three hours lab. Carries natural  science divisional credit (with lab) in CAS. 		

CAS CH 172: Principles of Organic and Biochemistry
           			Organic chemistry: structure, stereochemistry, and reactions of carbon compounds; emphasis on  compounds of biochemical interest: polysaccharides, lipids, nucleic acids, and proteins.  Biochemistry:  structure and function of molecules of biological importance; metabolism of carbohydrates, lipids, and  amino acids. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, one hour prelab lecture, and three hours lab.  Carries natural science divisional credit (with lab) in CAS. CAS CH 171 combined with CAS CH 172 is  intended as a terminal sequence.		

CAS CH 174: Principles of Organic Chemistry
           			Structure, stereochemistry, functional groups, and reactions of carbon-containing compounds;  spectroscopic techniques; emphasis on compounds and molecules of biochemical interest.  Three hours  lecture, one hour discussion, one hour prelab lecture, and three hours lab.		

CAS CH 181: Intensive General and Physical Chemistry 1
           			Brief review of stoichiometry, gas laws; extensive consideration of equilibrium, thermodynamics, atomic   and molecular structure, kinetics; application of principles to selected elements and compounds.   Correlated laboratory experiments emphasizing applications of quantitative analysis. Meets with CAS CH   111. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, four hours lab.		

CAS CH 182: Intensive General and Physical Chemistry 2
           			Brief review of stoichiometry, gas laws; extensive consideration of equilibrium, thermodynamics, atomic   and molecular structure, kinetics; application of principles to selected elements and compounds.   Correlated laboratory experiments emphasizing applications of quantitative analysis. Meets with CAS CH   112. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, four hours lab.  		

CAS CH 191: Undergraduate Research in Chemistry I
           			Experimental or theoretical investigation of problems including the use of the literature. Attendance at weekly research seminars and the writing of a report at the end of each semester required. Application must be made through the Department of Chemistry office during the first two weeks of the semester.		

CAS CH 192: Undergraduate Research in Chemistry I
           			Experimental or theoretical investigation of problems including the use of the literature. Attendance at weekly research seminars and the writing of a report at the end of each semester required. Application must be made through the Department of Chemistry office during the first two weeks of the semester.		

CAS CH 195: Freshman Seminar for Chemistry Majors
           			One-credit seminar for first-semester freshmen planning to major in chemistry. Explores special topics in  chemistry that are of current public interest and relevance. Introduction to  research and career  opportunities; discussion of professional ethics and other characteristics of a good  scientist. 		

CAS CH 201: Quantitative Analytical Chemistry Laboratory
           			Principles of quantitative analysis and instrumental analysis. Introduction to error analysis, basic statistics,   quantitative lab skills, chromatography, and spectroscopy (UV, AAS). Lab exercises apply concepts in redox   chemistry, acid/base reactions, transition metal chemistry, and other general chemistry topics. Skills and   topics covered are similar to the laboratory portion of the CAS CH 111/112 course sequence. One hour  lecture, four hours lab. Offered in fall and summer, annually.		

CAS CH 220: Organic Chemistry Laboratory with Qualitative Analysis
           			Laboratory methods in organic chemistry including multistep synthesis, organic qualitative analysis, and  instrumental analysis. Equivalent to the laboratory part of CAS CH 212. One hour lecture, four hours lab.		

CAS CH 232: Inorganic Chemistry
           			The relation of atomic and molecular structure to chemical properties. Bronsted and Lewis acid/base behavior; redox reactions; bonding and reactions of main group elements; d-metal complexes, including bonding, spectra, and reaction mechanisms; and organometallic chemistry. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, four hours lab. 		

CAS CH 273: Principles of Biochemistry
           			Biomolecules in aqueous systems. Composition, structure, and function of proteins, nucleic acids, and   polysaccharides. Information transfer from DNA to RNA and proteins. Bioenergetic principles in glycolysis,   oxidative energy metabolism, and selected biosynthetic paths. Applications to medicine, nutrition, and   biotechnology. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion.		

CAS CH 291: Undergraduate Research in Chemistry II
           			See CAS CH 191, 192 for description. 		

CAS CH 292: Undergraduate Research in Chemistry II
           			See CAS CH 191, 192 for description. 		

CAS CH 301: Chemical Synthesis and Analysis
           			Combined lecture/laboratory course that introduces fundamental methods of synthesis and analysis current in chemical research. Applications include topics in organocatalysis, asymmetric synthesis and organometallic chemistry, and spectroscopy. Eight hours lab plus three hours lecture.		

CAS CH 303: Instrumental Analysis Laboratory
           			Fundamental theoretical principles, capabilities, applications, and limitations of modern analytical  instrumentation with laboratory in spectroscopy and analytical chromatography. One hour lecture, six  hours lab (single session).		

CAS CH 351: Physical Chemistry I
           			Quantum Theory, atomic and molecular structure, molecular spectroscopy, statistical mechanics, solid state chemistry. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion.		

CAS CH 352: Physical Chemistry II
           			Thermodynamics, equilibrium, chemical kinetics. Applications include electrochemistry, phase transitions, catalysis, aqueous solutions, and polymers. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion.		

CAS CH 354: Physical Chemistry Laboratory
           			Experiments in thermodynamics, electrochemistry, chemical equilibrium, chemical kinetics, and  spectroscopy. Applications and principles of electronics and instrumental design and applications of  computers. Statistics and error analysis of laboratory data. Six hours lab plus prelab lecture.		

CAS CH 391: Undergraduate Research in Chemistry III
           			See CAS CH 191, 192 for description. 		

CAS CH 392: Undergraduate Research in Chemistry III
           			See CAS CH 191, 192 for description. 		

CAS CH 401: Honors Research in Chemistry
           			Minimum 16 hours per week of experimental or theoretical research, within a chemistry department  research group or in another approved research group  (outside the department) that is undertaking  research in the chemical sciences. An Honors thesis is submitted at the end of the spring semester and  defended before a committee of three faculty members. A grade of B or higher is required in both CAS  CH 401 and CAS CH 402 in order to graduate with Honors in the Major in Chemistry. An oral  presentation at the Undergraduate Research Symposium at the end of the spring semester is also  required.		

CAS CH 402: Honors Research in Chemistry
           			Minimum 16 hours per week of experimental or theoretical research, within a chemistry department  research group or in another approved research group  (outside the department) that is undertaking  research in the chemical sciences. An Honors thesis is submitted at the end of the spring semester and  defended before a committee of three faculty members. A grade of B or higher is required in both CAS  CH 401 and CAS CH 402 in order to graduate with Honors in the Major in Chemistry. An oral  presentation at the Undergraduate Research Symposium at the end of the spring semester is also  required.		

CAS CH 421: Biochemistry I
           			Introductory biochemistry. Protein structure and folding, enzyme mechanisms, kinetics, and allostery; nucleic acid structure; lipids and membrane structure; bioenergetics; vitamins and coenzymes; introduction to intermediary metabolism. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, four hours lab. 		

CAS CH 422: Biochemistry II
           			Polysaccharides, energy storage and recognition; intermediary metabolism; lipid and isoprene metabolism;  nitrogen metabolism; nucleotide metabolism, macromolecular biosynthesis with emphasis on specificity  and fidelity in the mechanisms of RNA, DNA, and protein synthesis. Three hours lecture, one hour  discussion, four hours lab.		

CAS CL 224: Greek Drama in Translation
	The history and development of ancient Greek theater; study of important plays in the genres of tragedy,  comedy, and satyr drama by Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides, Aristophanes, and Menander. Cannot be   taken for credit in addition to CAS CL 324. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS CL 226: Ancient Epic in Translation
	Studies, in translation, the tradition of Greek and Roman epic: heroic, cosmogonic, didactic. Possible  authors include Hesiod, Homer, Apollonius, Aratus, Lucretius, Vergil, Ovid, Lucan, Statius. Focus on the  social context, values, structure and narrative of each poem. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS  CL 326.		

CAS CL 229: Roman Comedy
	Selected plays. Explores the Roman adaptation of Greek comic forms, the development of a Roman point  of view, practical aspects of staging plays, and the influence of early Roman comedy on later literature.  Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS CL 329.		

CAS CL 261: Intermediate Greek 1: Prose
           			Reading of selections from Greek prose. Authors read may include Plato and Lysias, as well as selections from the New Testament.		

CAS CL 262: Intermediate Greek 2: Poetry
           			Reading of selections from the Iliad or Odyssey.		

CAS CL 305: Topics in Myth
           			This course may be repeated for credit as topics change. Topic for Fall 2014: Origin Stories of the Universe  and Humankind. Readings draw on a range of creation stories and myths from the Near East, Hebrew, and  Greek and Roman traditions to Darwin, Freud, Creationism, and the Big Bang.  		

CAS CL 306: Entheogens, Myth, and Human Consciousness
           			An examination of the role of entheogens (psychoactive substances, especially fungi, used for religious  purposes) in humankind's attempts to understand realms beyond the physical, as reflected in Greco- Roman religions and in various mythologies and folklores, and as represented in art and literature from  antiquity through the Renaissance.		

CAS CL 319: History of the Greek Language
           			Presents a comprehensive historical approach to the Greek language, tracing and elucidating major changes with attention to structure, grammar, syntax, vocabulary, and elements of style. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS CL 519.		

CAS CL 325: Greek Tragedy and Film
	Explores Greek tragic myth's afterlife, both directly and obliquely, in cinema and in the modern literature  spawning cinema: how certain Greek tragic myths have come to life as film and how "non-mythic" stories  have acquired a mythic power in literary and cinematic form. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS CL 346: Early Christian Latin Literature
           			Introduction to the reading and interpretation of important works of early Christian literature (3rd -- 6th centuries) in Latin, for students of classics (esp. Latin), theology, and related historical  disciplines. The focus is on language, literary form, relation to 'classical' literature, and historical contexts. Topics vary. Also offered as CAS CL 546.   		

CAS CL 351: Latin Seminar
           			Intensive study of selected major authors. Topics change each semester. May be repeated for credit. Topic    for Fall 2014: Horace's Poetry and His World. Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

CAS CL 391: Greek Seminar
           			Intensive study of selected major authors. May be repeated for credit. Topic for Fall 2014: Xenophon's  "Anabasis of Cyrus." Written around 380 BCE, the Anabasis is a model of Attic Greek prose and a source on  Xenophon's life and on Greek history, especially Graeco-Persian relations, around the turn of the fifth  century.		

CAS CL 396: Early Christian Greek Literature
           			Introduction to the reading and interpretation of important works of early Christian literature (1st --6th centuries) in Greek, for students of classics (esp. Greek), theology, and related historical  disciplines. The focus is on language, literary form, relation to 'classical' literature, and historical contexts.  Topics vary.  Also offered as CAS CL 596. 		

CAS CL 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS CL 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS CL 406: Advanced Topics in Classical Civilization
           			Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

CAS CL 451: Advanced Latin Seminar
           			Advanced level Latin seminar emphasizing close reading and literary analysis. Changing topics explore a variety of texts linked by chronology, genre, or theme. May be repeated for credit. Topic for Spring 2015:  Livy, Machiavelli, and the Creation of the Republic. Analysis of the first decade of the history and of  Machiavelli's reading of the early books in the "Discourses on Livy."		

CAS CL 461: Advanced Greek Seminar
CAS CL 497: Directed Study in Latin
           					

CAS CL 502: Studies in Ancient Greek and Roman Literature
	Topics vary. Open to advanced undergraduate and graduate students. Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

CAS CL 519: History of the Greek Language
           			Presents a comprehensive historical approach to the Greek language, tracing and elucidating major changes with attention to structure, grammar, syntax, vocabulary, and elements of style. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS CL 319.		

CAS CL 520: Studies in Latin Literature
           			Topic for Spring 2015: Livy, Machiavelli, and the Creation of the Republic. Analysis of the first decade of  the history and of Machiavelli's reading of the early books in the "Discourses on Livy."		

CAS CL 521: Survey of Latin Literature I
	Historical survey from archaic Latin through Republican literature; introduction to classical scholarship. For advanced students wishing to increase their language skills through extensive reading. 		

CAS CL 530: Latin Prose Composition
	Practice in set and free composition of Latin prose, aimed at developing advanced language proficiency. 		

CAS CL 546: Early Christian Latin Literature
           			Introduction to the reading and interpretation of important works of early Christian literature (3rd -- 6th centuries) in Latin, for students of classics (esp. Latin), theology, and related historical  disciplines. The focus is on language, literary form, relation to 'classical' literature, and historical contexts.  Topics vary.  Also offered as CAS CL 346. 		

CAS CL 560: Studies in Ancient Greek History
           			Topics vary. Not offered 2014/2015.		

CAS CL 561: Survey of Greek Literature 1
	Reading course designed to study the history of Greek literature through a chronological  survey of representative authors and genres: Homer through the archaic age.  		

CAS CL 562: Survey of Greek Literature 2
	Reading course designed to study the history of Greek literature through a chronological  survey of representative authors and genres: Classical through Hellenistic period.		

CAS CL 563: Greek Prose Composition
	Close study of exemplary Greek prose as the basis for original composition in Greek of sentences and short passages, then more extensive prose pieces.		

CAS CL 596: Early Christian Greek Literature
           			Introduction to the reading and interpretation of important works of early Christian literature (1st --6th centuries) in Greek, for students of classics (esp. Greek), theology, and related historical  disciplines. The focus is on language, literary form, relation to 'classical' literature, and historical contexts.  Topics vary.  Also offered as CAS CL 396. 		

CAS CN 510: Principles and Methods of Cognitive and Neural Modeling I
           			Explores psychological, biological, mathematical, and computational foundations of behavioral and brain modeling. Topics include organizational principles, mechanisms, local circuits, network architectures, cooperative and competitive non-linear feedback systems, associative learning systems, and self-organizing code-compression systems. The adaptive resonance theory model unifies many course themes. CAS CN 510 and 520 may be taken concurrently.		

CAS CN 520: Principles and Methods of Cognitive and Neural Modeling II
		Analyzes three main traditions in models of learning: unsupervised (self-organized) learning, supervised learning (learning with a teacher), and reinforcement learning. Architectures studied include adaptive filters, back propagation, competitive learning, self-organizing feature maps, gradient descent procedures, Boltzmann machines, simulated annealing, neocognitron, and gated dipoles. CAS CN 510 and 520 may be taken concurrently. 		

CAS CN 540: Neural and Computational Models of Adaptive Movement Planning and Control
		Neural models of eye, arm, hand, orofacial, and leg movements are presented and compared to reveal general organizational principles and specialized neural circuit designs for motor learning and performance. Issues include trajectory formation, synchronization of synergists, variable velocity control, adaptive gain control, map formation, load compensation, serial order, and inflow versus outflow as sources of sensory-motor information.		

CAS CN 560: Neural and Computational Models of Speech Perception and Production
		Develops neural network models of speech perception and production processes. Emphasis is placed on the role of learning and on the specialized neural designs that have evolved for purposes of speech communication. Practical, including industrial, applications of neural networks for speech processing are also reviewed.		

CAS CN 570: Neural and Computational Models of Conditioning, Reinforcement, Motivation, and Rhythm
           			Develops neural and computational models of how humans and animals learn to successfully predict environmental events and generate behavioral actions that satisfy internally defined criteria of success or failure. Reinforcement learning and its homeostatic (drive, arousal, rhythm) and nonhomeostatic (reinforcement) modulators are analyzed in depth. Recognition learning and recall learning networks are joined to the reinforcement learning network to analyze how these several processes cooperate to generate successful goal-oriented behavior. Maladaptive behaviors and certain mental disorders are analyzed from a unified theoretical perspective. Applications to the design of freely moving adaptive robots are noted. 		

CAS CS 107: Computing in Machines and Nature
	What is computing? Where can it take place?  How can we recognize computing occurring in nature? This   course looks beyond traditional electronic computers to present a modern view of computation, its   limitations, and its realization in varying settings.  (Does not count for CS major credit.) Carries MCS divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS CS 108: Introduction to Applications Programming
	Introduction to programming suitable for students not majoring in computer science. Topics include:  application decomposition and abstraction; data manipulation and programming with databases; graphical  user interfaces; debugging. Assignments include applications in science, commerce, games, the Web, and  social networking. (Does not count for CS major credit.) Carries MCS divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS CS 109: The Art and Science of Quantitative Reasoning
	Buying music on-line, making phone calls, predicting the weather, or controlling disease outbreaks would  be impossible without mathematics, statistics, and computer science.  Focuses on methods of reasoning  common to these disciplines, and how they enable the modern world. (Does not count for CS major  credit.) Also offered as CAS MA 109. Carries MCS divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS CS 111: Introduction to Computer Science 1
	The first course for computer science majors and anyone seeking a rigorous introduction. Develops  computational problem-solving skills by programming in the Python language, and exposes students to  variety of other topics from computer science and its applications. Carries MCS divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS CS 112: Introduction to Computer Science 2
           			Covers advanced programming techniques and data structures. Topics include recursion, algorithm   analysis, linked lists, stacks, queues, trees, graphs, tables, searching, and sorting. Carries MCS divisional  credit in CAS. 		

CAS CS 131: Combinatoric Stuctures
	Representation, analysis, techniques, and principles for manipulation of basic combinatoric structures used in computer science. Rigorous reasoning is emphasized.		

CAS CS 132: Geometric Algorithms
           			Basic concepts, data structures, and algorithms for geometric objects. Examples of topics: Cartesian   geometry, transformations and their representation, queries and sampling, triangulations. Emphasis on   rigorous reasoning and analysis, advancing algorithmic maturity and expertise in its application. 		

CAS CS 210: Computer Systems
           			Fundamental concepts of computer systems and systems programming. Hardware fundamentals including   digital logic, memory systems, processor design, buses, I/O subsystems, data representations, computer   arithmetic, and instruction-set architecture. Software concepts including assembly language programming,   operating systems, assemblers, linkers, and systems programming in C.		

CAS CS 211: Object-Oriented Programming Paradigms
           			Intensive study of object-oriented generic programming paradigms, including   inheritance, templates,  generic patterns, and the Standard Template Library. Students   design, implement, and test large-scale  C++/C# programs involving file systems, databases, and graphical interfaces using integrated  development platforms. (Does not count for CS major credit.)		

CAS CS 235: Algebraic Algorithms
	Basic concepts and algorithms for manipulation of algebraic objects, such as residues, matrices,   polynomials; and applications to various CS  areas, such as cryptography and fault-tolerance. Emphasis on   rigorous  reasoning and analysis.		

CAS CS 237: Probability in Computing
           			Introduction to basic probabilistic concepts and methods used in computer science. Develops an   understanding of the crucial role played by randomness in computing, both as a powerful tool and as a   challenge to confront and analyze. Emphasis on rigorous reasoning, analysis, and algorithmic thinking.		

CAS CS 320: Concepts of Programming Languages
           			Concepts involved in the design of programming languages. Bindings, argument transmission, and control structures. Environments: compile-time, load-time, and run-time. Interpreters. 		

CAS CS 330: Introduction to Analysis of Algorithms
           			Examines the basic principles of algorithm analysis; techniques of efficient programming; analysis of sorting and searching; graph algorithms; string-matching algorithms; matrix algorithms; integer and  polynomial arithmetic; the fast Fourier transform; and NP-hard and NP-complete problems.		

CAS CS 332: Elements of the Theory of Computation
           			The basic concepts of the theory of computation are studied. Topics include models of computation, polynomial time, Church's thesis; universal algorithms, undecidability and intractability; time and space complexity, nondeterminism, probabilistic computation and reductions of computational problems. 		

CAS CS 350: Fundamentals of Computing Systems
           			Rigorous treatment of invariant concepts, algorithms, and performance evaluation methods underlying computing systems design. Topics include modeling and analysis of concurrent processing, computational  resource scheduling and consumption, and performance evaluation techniques. 		

CAS CS 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS CS 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS CS 410: Advanced Software Systems
           			Systems programming including such topics as project management, tools, I/O networking, multiprocessing, exception handling, and system services. Other topics are explored using C and Perl under the UNIX operating system. Requires a working knowledge of the C programming language and experience with UNIX as a user, or equivalent. 		

CAS EC 369: Economic Development of Latin America
           			Contemporary issues of economic and social policy. Macroeconomic issues: inflation, stabilization, and the debt crisis. Foreign trade and economic restructuring. Poverty and income distribution. Role of the state. 		

CAS EC 370: The Chinese Economy
           			Introduces the working of the Chinese economy. Combines historical-institutional and theoretical- quantitative approaches to study the transformation of China's economy into a market economy with  special characteristics.		

CAS EC 371: Environmental Economics
           			Role of economics in environmental planning. Economic analysis of the causes of pollution and its control through taxes, the use of property rights, and standards. Application of cost-benefit models as an aid in policy decisions affecting the environment. 		

CAS EC 377: Government, Business, and Labor
           			Examines economic growth from the perspective of the structure, conduct, and performance of business. Combines economic theories of conduct and strategy with industry case studies and evaluates the effect of government policy toward business and labor on the performance of the economy. 		

CAS EC 385: Economics of Sports
           			Applies the tools of microeconomic theory and empirical methods to study such questions as the optimal  design of sports leagues, the impact of new stadiums on a local economy, fan (customer) discrimination,  and salary differentials between players. 		

CAS EC 387: Introduction to Health Economics
           			Concepts of health economics applicable to both developed and developing countries. Topics include effect of health on the economy, effect of health care on health, hospital behavior, health work-force supply, and demand for health care. 		

CAS EC 391: International Economics I
           			The pure theory of international trade. Topics include comparative advantage and gains from trade, tariff and nontariff barriers to trade, and case studies in international economic policy. 		

CAS EC 392: International Economics II: Problems and Policy
           			Basic issues of international finance. Topics include the balance of payments, balance of payments adjustments, theories of exchange rate determination, and case studies in international economic policy. 		

CAS EC 401: Senior Independent Work
			

CAS EC 402: Senior Independent Work
			

CAS EC 403: Game Theory
           			Models of decision-making in which the choices of different individuals interact:  basic equilibrium notions in normal form games, including signaling games and repeated games.  Applications include auctions, foreign policy, takeover bids, entry deterrence, cooperation and conflict, financial markets, and public goods.  		

CAS EC 404: Economics of Information
           			Introduction to the field of information economics and its applications. Covers a wide range of situations in which players have access to different private information and this private information differently affects their incentives and strategic behavior. 		

CAS EC 436: Economics of Corporate Organization
           			Economic analysis of the architecture of firms and other organizations. Topics include firm boundaries, the allocation of ownership and control, integration and outsourcing, corporate governance, performance evaluation, and compensation.		

CAS EC 445: Economics of Risk and Uncertainty
           			For advanced undergraduates. Emphasis on quantitative links between theory and data. Topics include expected utility, portfolio choice and the capital asset pricing model, interest rates and monetary policy, the relation between the real economy and the stock market.		

CAS EC 491: Directed Study in Economics
			

CAS EC 492: Directed Study in Economics
			

CAS EC 501: Microeconomic Theory
           			Covers the basic concepts and techniques of microeconomic theory. Topics include consumer demand and its foundation on preferences and budget constraints, economics of uncertainty and imperfect information, production theory, applied competitive equilibrium analysis, elementary game theory, and imperfect competition. 		

CAS EC 502: Macroeconomic Theory
CAS EN 143: Introduction to Drama
	Introduction to dramatic literature and performance. Readings may include works from the classical period  to the present, with particular emphasis on learning how to read and understand dramatic literature as a  form and in cultural context. Topics vary by instructor. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to  the course with the same number that was previously titled "Literary Types: Drama."  Carries humanities  divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS EN 163: Reading Shakespeare
	A critical introduction to Shakespeare through intensive analyses of six or seven plays. Possible attention  to such topics as literary sources, early modern stagecraft, performance history, and contemporary film  adaptation. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.   		

CAS EN 164: Reading Shakespeare
	Representative tragedies, comedies, and histories. Primarily for students not concentrating in English. CAS EN 163 not prerequisite for EN 164. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.   		

CAS EN 175: Literature and the Art of Film
	Survey and analysis of cinema as an expressive medium from the silent period to the present. Films are screened weekly and discussed in conjunction with works of literature. Students must register for screening, discussion, and lecture. 		

CAS EN 202: Introduction to Creative Writing
	An introduction to writing in various genres: poetry, fiction, plays. Students' work discussed in class. Designed mainly for those with little or no experience in creative writing. Does not give concentration credit. Enrollment limited. 		

CAS EN 220: Seminar in Literature
	Fundamentals of literary analysis, interpretation, and research. Intensive study of selected literary texts centered on a particular topic. Attention to different critical approaches. Frequent papers. Limited class size. Required of concentrators in English. Satisfies WR 150 requirement.		

CAS EN 221: Major Authors I
	Introduction to the major works of ancient and medieval literatures that influenced later Continental, English, and American literature: the Bible, Homeric epic, Greek tragedy, Vergil's Aeneid, and Dante's The Divine Comedy. Required of concentrators in English. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course by the same title that was formerly numbered CAS HU 221. 		

CAS EN 304: Writing of Poetry
           			The writing of poems discussed in a workshop setting. For the more advanced student. Individual conferences. Limited enrollment.		

CAS EN 305: Writing of Fiction
           			The writing of short stories and perhaps longer fiction discussed in a workshop setting. For the more advanced student. Individual conferences. Limited enrollment.		

CAS EN 306: Introduction to Playwriting
	Students write and discuss their plays in a workshop setting. Individual conferences. Limited enrollment.		

CAS EN 322: British Literature I
           			Beginnings of English literature from Anglo-Saxon period to end of the seventeenth century. Topics include the development of various poetic forms, medieval romance, and British drama. Authors may include Chaucer, Kempe, Shakespeare, Marlowe, Donne, and Milton. 		

CAS EN 323: British Literature II
           			Overview of English literature between 1700 and 1900. Topics include London as urban center, modern prose fiction, Romantic and Victorian poetry, tensions between religion and science. Authors may include Pope, Swift, Wordsworth, Austen, Dickens, Tennyson, Wilde.		

CAS EN 326: Voices of Women
	Topic for Spring 2013: Representations of gender on diverse stages, in high and low genres, from antiquity  to the present. Theatrical and feminist movements and the intersections of gender, sexuality, race, and  class. Readings include dramatic texts and gender and performance theory.		

CAS EN 327: Topics in American Literature
           			May be repeated for credit as topics change each semester. Topic for Spring 2015: Ethnic American Women  Writers. How have nineteenth- and twentieth-century immigrant and ethnic women writers reinvented and  engaged American culture, literary traditions, and experience? Authors include Sui Sin Far, Maxine Hong  Kingston, Zitkala Sa, Louise Erdrich, Anzia Yezierska, Grace Paley, Sandra Cisneros, Bharati Mukherjee.		

CAS EN 341: History of the Novel in English
           			An introduction to the history of the Anglophone novel, from its origins in early modern England to its  status as the dominant literary form of modernity. Readings include Defoe, Austen, Dickens, James, Woolf,  Morrison, and Coetzee.		

CAS EN 347: Topics in Contemporary Fiction
           			May be repeated for credit as topics change each semester. Topic for Spring 2015: Post-1990 Anglophone   Literature. Stories of people who get ahead from India, Pakistan, Nigeria, Zimbabwe, China, Malaysia, and   elsewhere. Set in the era of globalization and free markets, we compare tales of ambition, disappointment,   solidarity, disaffection. Themes of gender, class, and race explored.		

CAS EN 355: Modern Drama I
	Theatre history from 1870 to 1920. Plays by Ibsen, Strindberg, Chekhov, Wilde, Shaw. The birth of modern  techniques of acting, design, and directing. Students stage short scenes; no experience required.		

CAS EN 356: Modern Drama II
	Modern drama and theatre history from roughly 1920 to the present.  Playwrights may include Pirandello, Beckett, Ionesco, Brecht, O'Neill,  Miller, Williams, Albee, Pinter, and Churchill. The development of modern  techniques of acting, stage design, and directing.		

CAS EN 363: Shakespeare I
	Six plays chosen from the following: Richard II, Henry IV, Much Ado About Nothing, As You Like It, Julius Caesar, Troilus and Cressida, Hamlet, Othello, Antony and Cleopatra, and The Winter's Tale.  Some attention to the sonnets.		

CAS EN 364: Shakespeare II
	Six or seven plays chosen from the following: Richard III, A Midsummer Night's Dream, Romeo and Juliet, The Merchant of Venice, Twelfth Night, Much Ado About Nothing, Measure for Measure, King Lear, Macbeth, Coriolanus, and The Tempest.		

CAS EN 370: Introduction to African American Women Writers
	Examines the African American female literary tradition through selected texts by African American  women, written from slavery to the present. Critical scholarship that interrogates race, gender, and class  and examines literary history provides the larger context for discussion of these works. Also offered as CAS EN 370.. Also offered as CAS  AA 304.		

CAS EN 373: Detective Fiction
	A study of the major writers in the history of literary crime and detection, mainly British and American, with attention to the genre's cultural contexts and development from the eighteenth century to the  present.		

CAS EN 375: Topics in Literature and Film
           			Major themes and techniques explored by both writers and filmmakers. May be repeated for credit as      topics change. Topic for Fall 2013: On The Road in American Literature and Film. Explores the various   motivations for and consequences of taking to the road. Works may include Ford's Grapes of Wrath,   Invisible Man, Housekeeping, The Wild One, The Fugitive Kind, Catcher in the Rye, Thelma and Louise,  Boys  Don't Cry. Topic for Spring 2014: The Mother Figure in Literature and Film. A study of literature  and film with prominent maternal figures, from monster moms to model mothers. Weekly screenings.		

CAS EN 377: Literature of the Harlem Renaissance
	This study of the Harlem Renaissance (1919-1935) focuses on literature with overviews of the stage, the  music, and the visual arts. Authors include Du Bois, Locke, Garvey, Schuyler, Hurston, McKay, Larsen,  Fisher, Hughes, Cullen. Also offered as CAS AA 507.		

CAS EN 379: American Poetry
	A survey of American poetry, from the Revolutionary era up through the post-WWII period, introducing the  fundamentals of poetic form and lyric practice, as well as the historical and cultural contexts surrounding  the development of Romanticism, Modernism, and beyond.		

CAS EN 380: Twentieth-Century African American Novel
	Topic for Spring 2013: Transformations of Genre in the Twentieth-Century African American Novel. Major  works drawn from the Harlem Renaissance, Realism, Modernism, the Black Arts Movement, and the  contemporary period. Authors may include Jean Toomer, Nella Larsen, Wallace Thurman, Richard Wright,  Anne Petry, Ralph Ellison, Octavia Butler, John Wideman, Gloria Naylor, and Toni Morrison. Also offered as  AA 502.		

CAS EN 389: Fictional Forms
	Topic for Fall 2014: The Gothic: Monsters, Myths, History. Survey of Gothic as a narrative form (by contrast  with the realistic novel) with attention to history (as a Gothic narrative) and modern myths (Frankenstein's  monster, vampire, zombie, cyborg). Nineteenth & twentieth-century fiction primarily, with an eye on today  throughout.		

CAS EN 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS EN 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS EN 404: Literary Criticism I
	A historical survey of western literary-critical standards from the earliest surviving formulations in classical  Athens to the dawn of the twentieth century, with particular attention to the shifting cultural contexts that  shape this development.		

CAS EN 405: Advanced Writing of Fiction
           			The writing of short stories and perhaps longer fiction. Manuscripts read and discussed in class. Individual conferences.		

CAS EN 406: Literary Criticism II
	Survey of literary critical perspectives and trends in humanistic theory relevant to literary interpretation from the middle of the twentieth century onward, including formalism, structuralism, post-structuralism, gender studies, new historicism, and post-colonial studies. Frequent writing assignments of varying length. 		

CAS EN 463: Hamlet/Macbeth: Appropriation and Performance
	Analysis of these plays through historical context, performance histories, and contemporary dramatic and  prose appropriations. Theoretical considerations of adaptation and appropriation, including such topics as  intertextuality, performance as interpretation, cultural politics, canon formation, and the global  marketplace of culture.		

CAS EN 468: Critical Studies in British Literature
	Topic for Fall 2014: Humanism & Novel. Instead of following the history of the novel from the  eighteenth  century forward, this course looks backward, tracing the modern novel (Defoe, Haywood,  Fielding,  Richardson, Sterne, and Austen) back to Renaissance and early modern Humanism and the Deist   movement.		

CAS EN 471: Critical Studies in American Literary Movements
	Topic for Fall 2012: Modernity in the Atlantic World. An "Atlantic Studies" introduction focusing on the  historical conditions that unite Britain and America in a single, though internally various, culture. Readings  include Gilroy, Bailyn, Ellison, Roach, Defoe, Paine, Equiano, Douglass, Dickens, and James.		

CAS EN 472: Critical Studies in American Literary Movements
	Topic for Spring 2015: Transnational Modernism. Explores how internationalization shaped the emergence  of modernism in fiction, poetry, and visual art in the U.S. and Caribbean. Close analysis of texts informed  by theories of cosmopolitanism, translation, vernacular and print culture, primitivism, creolization, world  history, and transpacific exchange.		

CAS EN 474: Critical Studies in Literary Genres
	Topic for Spring 2014: Genre Theory. Genre as a category of literary and discursive analysis; selected  theories of two exemplary literary genres, poetry and the novel; major 20th- and 21st-century theories of  genre from "neoclassical" classificatory approaches through rhetorical genre studies and activity theory.		

CAS EN 475: Critical Studies in Literature and Gender
	Topic for Fall 2013: Early Modern Women Authors. A survey of European women writers from the 1400s to  the early 1600s, and of the modern critical thinking that has redefined their literary-historical importance.  Christine de Pizan, Theresa of Avila, Marguerite de Navarre, Gaspara Stampa, Elizabeth I, and others. Also  offered as CAS XL 470 B1.		

CAS EN 476: Critical Studies in Literature and Gender
	Topic for Spring 2015: Sex, Gender, and the Body in Medieval Literature. Focusing on the medieval era, this  course explores the history of sexuality and gendered identities, as well as sexuality's radical potential to  disrupt and transform bodies and selves over time. Medieval literature, alongside critical readings in  gender and sexuality studies.		

CAS EN 480: Critical Studies in American Writers
	Topic for Fall 2014: Pragmatism and Literature. Major American authors (including Emerson, Dickinson,   Henry James, Crane, Du Bois, and Frost) read in relation to classical pragmatist philosophers such as   William James, Peirce, Dewey, and Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.		

CAS EN 482: Critical Studies in Modern Literature
	Topic for Spring 2014: Literature and Cultural Difference. Overview of some of the main themes explored  in colonial and postcolonial literature, along with relevant critical and historical materials. We are likely to  read works by Conrad, Achebe, Naipaul, Rushdie, Kincaid, Coetzee.		

CAS EN 485: Representing Gender in American Literature and Film
	Explores representations of gender in classic American literature and film. Treating such subjects as "rites  of passage in cultures of consumption" and "struggles for vocation among writers and filmmakers," this course considers gender as accessible only through particular histories.		

CAS EN 491: Independent Study
           			Application forms available in CAS Room 105.		

CAS EN 492: Independent Study
           			Application forms available in CAS Room 105.		

CAS EN 493: Critical Studies in Literature and The Arts
	Topic for Fall 2013: Music and Poetry. An historical survey of the relations between the two arts from the  Greeks to the present. Discussions of poetry in many languages; emphasis on English. Chant, song,  madrigal, opera, and other forms. Ability to read music is required. Also offered as CAS XL 470 A1 and CFA  MU 594.		

CAS EN 495: Critical Studies in Literary Topics
	Topic for Spring 2015: Literature and Philosophy. Conversations and confrontations between literary and  philosophical texts. Philosophy and the arts, ideas in literature, poetry and thought, and reading  philosophically. Explorations include Plato, Shakespeare, Kant, Blake, Austen, Dickinson, Nietzsche,  Wittgenstein, Woolf, Beckett, Stevens, Hitchcock, and Derrida among others.		

CAS EN 502: Crafting a Nonfiction Voice Workshop
           			A writing workshop that explores the notion of voice on the written page. Through reading, analysis,  writing exercises, and independent projects, students become familiar with techniques for recreating the  voices of others and for shaping a distinctive nonfiction voice (or voices) of their own.		

CAS EN 503: Fiction Workshop
           			A workshop in the writing of fiction. Manuscripts read and discussed in class. Individual conferences. Enrollment limited chiefly to graduate students.		

CAS EN 504: Fiction Workshop
		A workshop in the writing of fiction. Manuscripts read and discussed in class. Individual conferences. Enrollment limited chiefly to graduate students.		

CAS EN 505: Poetry Workshop
           			A workshop in the writing of poetry. Manuscripts read and discussed in class. Individual conferences. Enrollment limited chiefly to graduate students.		

CAS EN 506: Poetry Workshop
		A workshop in the writing of poetry. Manuscripts read and discussed in class. Individual conferences. Enrollment limited chiefly to graduate students.		

CAS EN 507: Seminar: Creative Writing, Fiction
           			A workshop in the writing of fiction. Manuscripts read and discussed in class. Individual conferences. Enrollment limited chiefly to graduate students.		

CAS EN 508: Seminar: Creative Writing, Poetry
           			Individual conferences. Enrollment limited chiefly to graduate students. 		

CAS EN 509: Playwriting 1: Analysis to Inspiration
           			A seminar in the fundamentals of dramatic form, structure, characterization, and theme. Students read and  discuss playwrights such as Brecht, Chekhov, and Shepard and, through written exercises, develop their  individual plays.		

CAS EN 510: Playwriting 2: Writing Short Plays
           			A seminar in the writing of short, original plays, addressing structure, language, and theme. Students read   and discuss the masters  of modern drama, and writing exercises are assigned to stir the imagination and   develop craft. 		

CAS EN 512: Readings for Writers: Contemporary Literary Nonfiction
	Intensive reading seminar for students interested in literary nonfiction, a wide-ranging, sometimes  controversial genre in which writers use techniques associated with fiction and poetry to make meaning of  facts. Explores the wealth and breadth of contemporary literary nonfiction -- memoir, personal essay,  literary journalism, travel, science, and medical writing -- with an eye toward helping students think about  their own nonfiction writing practices.		

CAS EN 518: Linguistic Problems in the Teaching of English as a Foreign Language
           			Application of linguistic concepts to the teaching of English as a foreign language. Includes description of contemporary English grammatical structures that pose problems for learners and teachers.		

CAS EN 530: The Romantic Age
	Studies in British literature from 1789 to 1832. Romanticism considered in light of social, aesthetic, historical, and philosophical issues. Authors may include Blake, Burke, Wollstonecraft, William and Dorothy Wordsworth, Coleridge, Godwin, Byron, Cobbett, Scott, Clare, Mary and Percy Shelley, Keats, De Quincey, and Hazlitt.		

CAS EN 533: American Literature: Beginnings to 1855
	American literature from the beginning to the brink of the Civil War. Puritan origins, print  culture, American poetic taste, entertainment, and the debate over slavery. Works by  Bradstreet, Jefferson, Franklin, Poe, Emerson, Hawthorne, Stowe, Jacobs, and Melville.		

CAS EN 534: American Literature: 1855 to 1918
	American literature from the Civil War to WWI, from Adventures of Huckleberry Finn to Tarzan of the Apes.  Realism and regionalism, race and class, the history of taste and the emergence of high culture.		

CAS EN 535: Twentieth-Century British and Irish Poetry
	Close reading of balladic, lyric, and longer poems by Hardy, Yeats, Lawrence, Auden, Rosenberg, Mew, Loy, MacDiarmid, Gurney, Douglas, Larkin, Hill, Harrison, Prynne, others. Poets' essays and opposed schools and approaches. Reference to other arts, and times of political tragedy.		

CAS EN 536: Twentieth-Century American Poetry
	Modernist and later twentieth American poetry, including selected long poems and shorter lyrics, with  attention to poets' prose, collaborations. Crane, Williams, Stevens, Stein, Loy, O'Hara, Olson, others. Some  emphasis on unusual forms and persistence of visionary poetry despite anti-romantic stances.		

CAS EN 543: The Nineteenth-Century British Novel
	The development of the novel form in its social-historical context. Authors may include Austen, Thackeray, the Brontës, Dickens, George Eliot, Hardy, and others.		

CAS EN 544: The Modern British Novel
	Conrad, Woolf, Lawrence, Joyce, Rhys, Isherwood, Beckett. Emphasis on prose style; narrative craft;  dialogue forms; laughter; the novelistic page of print; the political backgrounds of the first half of the  twentieth century.		

CAS EN 545: The Nineteenth Century American Novel
	Development of prose fiction in the United States, with works by Brown, Cooper, Hawthorne, Melville,  Twain, Stowe, James, Howells, and others. Topics include print culture, realism and romance, the Civil War,  and sentimentalism.		

CAS EN 546: The Modern American Novel
           			Topic for Fall 2013: Modernism and Modernity: History and Literature of the United States between the   World Wars. Team taught look at history and literature of US in interwar (1920-1945) period, emphasizing   rise of modernism as cultural response to "modern" economic, cultural, and social developments. Readings   include Hemingway, Faulkner, Fitzgerald, alongside historical documents and scholarship. Also offered as   CAS HI 312.		

CAS EN 547: Contemporary American Fiction
	Syllabus varies from semester to semester but this course may be taken only once for credit. Topic for    Spring 2015: Major American Novels since 1984. Novels by De Lillo, Morrison, O'Brien, Oates, Roth, Lee,  Alexie, K. Desai, and Diaz. Course topics include risk, multiculturalism, trauma and memory,  cosmopolitanism and bilingualism.		

CAS EN 551: English Drama to 1590
	Mystery, Morality, Interludes, and the first rollicking public-stage plays. Piety, blasphemy, scatological  humor, horrific violence, trans-gendering, black magic, bad verse, and politically-incorrect fun, from  Anonymous to early Shakespeare, including the bad-boy playwrights of London's first mass-entertainment  industry.		

CAS EN 561: Chaucer: The Canterbury Tales
	A reading of some of the Canterbury Tales and several books of Troilus and Criseyde, emphasizing the rhetorical strategies with which Chaucer attempted to turn the linguistic, social, political, religious, and  cultural chaos of fourteenth-century England into courtly amusement.		

CAS EN 566: Milton
	Explores John Milton's prose and poetry in the context of both the seventeenth century and our current  critical moment. Issues include religious liberty, gender, republicanism, genre, sexuality, slavery,  friendship, English civil wars, ecocriticism, career anxiety, and changing ideas of reading.		

CAS EN 568: Studies in British Literature
	Topic for Spring 2015: Shakespeare and Film. Study of Shakespeare's tragedies, including Hamlet, Othello,   King Lear, and Macbeth, in multiple film versions of each play by such directors as Olivier, Welles, Nunn,   Eyre, Branagh, Luhrmann, Taymor, and Kurosawa. Previous study of Shakespeare recommended.		

CAS EN 571: Special Topics in American Literature
	Topic for Fall 2012: American Poetry to 1860. An in-depth exploration of American poetry from its  beginnings to the Civil War, unfolding according to historical principles and paying special attention to the  cultural impacts of verse. Authors studied include Bradstreet, Taylor, Wheatley, Emerson, Poe, Harper,  Whitman, and others.		

CAS EN 572: Studies in American Literary Movements
	Topic for Fall 2013: Transnational American Studies. Drawing on examples from literature, history, art,  photography, and architecture, this course explores the global origins of American culture. Topics include  the immigrant experience; tourism; internationalism; and cultural crossings between Japan and the US in  the late nineteenth century. Also offered as CAS AM 501.		

CAS EN 575: Studies in Literature and Gender
	Topic for Fall 2012: Queer Literature and Film. An overview of same-sex attraction in literature from the   Greeks to the present. Readings: Whitman, Dickinson, Radclyffe Hall, Wilde, Forster, Winterson,   Hollinghurst, others. Queer identities in film from the silent period to the twenty-first century. Weekly   screenings.		

CAS EN 576: Studies in Literature and Gender
	Topic for Spring 2013: Seventeenth-Century English Women Writers. Explores the fascinating world of war,  sex, revolution, slavery and religion that was the English seventeenth century through the writings of  women, including Halkett, Cavendish, Hutchinson, Philips, Behn, and others. Readings include exquisite  poetry, hilarious plays, quirky romances and awe-inspiring pamphlets.		

CAS EN 578: Studies in British Writers
	Topic for Fall 2014: Virginia Woolf. A careful examination of one of the most enigmatic, challenging, and  consistently astonishing writers of the modern era. Students read a thorough selection of Woolf's fiction  and exploratory essays, while contemplating recurrent problems of subjectivity, experimentalism,  metaphor, gender, and history.		

CAS EN 579: Studies in American Writers
	Topic for Fall 2014: Emerson, Whitman, Dickinson. Whitman and Dickinson as unruly eccentrics and as   wholly representative nineteenth-century American writers, in the context of Emerson's call for a literature   that embraces "the common." A course in cultural history and in close reading.		

CAS ES 351: Paleoclimatology and Paleoceanography
           			Examines causes and effects of climate change throughout Earth's history. Topics    include ice age climates and glaciations; oceanic history; linkages between Arctic and    Antarctic ice sheets; tectonic effects; ice-core, coral, and marine sediment records; El    Niño, terrestrial extinctions. 		

CAS ES 360: Geodynamics I
           			(Meets with GRS ES 660.) Introduces basic physical principles of Earth's structure and  dynamics. Driving mechanisms and plate motion; reflection, refraction seismology,  magnetism, gravity and the Geoid, heat flow, tomography, mantle convection. Oceanic  and continental lithosphere in active tectonic regions.		

CAS ES 371: Introduction to Geochemistry
           			(Meets with GRS ES 671.) Chemical features of Earth and the solar system; geochemical cycles, reactions among solids, liquids, and gases; radioactivity and isotope fractionation; water chemistry; origins of ore deposits; applications of geochemistry to regional and global problems.		

CAS ES 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS ES 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS ES 423: Marine Biogeochemistry
           			Oceanic nutrient and biogeochemical cycling in the context of the marine response to global change. Links between local and global scales are emphasized. Topics include oceanic productivity, iron limitation, and oceanic glacial-interglacial biogeochemistry. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion. (Offered alternate years.)		

CAS ES 424: Igneous and Metamorphic Petrology
           			Recognition and interpretation of common igneous and metamorphic rocks, both in hand sample and in thin section; the relationships between rocks and the tectonic environments in which they formed. Three hours lecture, three hours lab, and occasional field trips. 		

CAS ES 440: Marine Geology
           			Examines the evolution of ocean basins and marginal seas, changes in structure and composition of ocean basin throughout the last billion years, and the contribution of oceanic geological processes to the chemistry and biochemistry of earth.		

CAS ES 443: Terrestrial Biogeochemistry
           			The patterns and processes controlling carbon and nutrient cycling in terrestrial ecosystems. Links between local and global scales are emphasized. Topics include net primary production, nutrient use efficiency, and biogeochemical transformation. Meets with CAS BI 443/643.		

CAS ES 483: Geodynamics II: Fluids and Fluid Transport
           			Large- and small-scale phenomena in oceanic, atmospheric, and landsurface fluids. Properties of gases and liquids; surface body forces; statics; flow analysis; continuity and momentum conservation. Darcy's Law; potential, open channel, and geostrophic flow; dimensional analysis; diffusion, turbulence.		

CAS ES 491: Directed Study in Earth Sciences
           			Individual instruction and directed research of a selected topic.		

CAS ES 492: Directed Study in Earth Sciences
           			Individual instruction and directed research of a selected topic.		

CAS ES 505: Plate Tectonics and Kinematics
	Structure and geometry of lithospheric plates and plate boundaries; mechanisms of divergent, convergent, and transform boundaries; orthogonal and oblique subduction; triple junctions; mantle plumes, nature and origin of large igneous provinces and sedimentary basin, Phanerozoic orogenic belts.  		

CAS ES 514: Dynamic Landsurface Hydrology
		Land surface hydrology with emphasis on the unsaturated zone. Development and applications of physics governing transport of water, vapor, and heat in soils and the near surface atmosphere. Effects of vegetation, topography, and water table on runoff, evapotranspiration, and recharge.  (Offered alternate years.)		

CAS ES 534: Ice-Age Systems
		Paleo-evironmental analyses of global climate change during cold-Earth periods, from Pre-Cambrian  Snowball Earth to the last deglacial cycle; discussion of geochemical and geophysical proxies used in  climate reconstructions. Readings from primary literature; occasional field trips. (Offered alternate years.)		

CAS ES 535: Advanced Topics in Marine Geoscience
CAS GE 401: Senior Independent Work
           			Senior Independent Work		

CAS GE 402: Senior Independent Work
           			Senior Independent Work		

CAS GE 420: Methods of Environmental Policy Analysis
           			Introduction to the analysis of environmental policy, the implications of environmental problems for public decision making, the tools available to decision-makers, and their effectiveness, advantages, and disadvantages.		

CAS GE 425: United States Environmental Policy
           			Survey and historical overview of key environmental policies and regulations in the United States. Emphasis on policy development, including formulation and implementation of federal pollution control regulations since the National Environmental Policy Act of 1970. Considers possible future policy needs.		

CAS GE 440: Digital Image Processing ? Remote Sensing
           			Pursues both the algorithms involved in processing remotely sensed images and their application. Topics include spectral and spatial enhancement, image classification and clustering, spatial analysis, and linear transforms.		

CAS GE 445: Physical Models in Remote Sensing
           			Devoted to understanding the physical processes involved in remote sensing. Emphasis on topics of radiative transfer in the atmosphere, at the surface, and in sensors. Reflectance modeling, advanced sensor systems, and geometric effects.		

CAS GE 456: Terrestrial Ecosystems and the Carbon Cycle
           			Explores the past, present, and possible future dynamics of the terrestrial carbon cycle. Key topics include the physical climate system, variability, ecosystem processes, land use issues, and impacts of global change on society.		

CAS GE 460: Resource Economics and Policy
           			Economic analysis of environmental resources and policies for their management. Introduces dynamic optimization as a tool for understanding and anlayzing both resource scarcity and the management of energy, fishery, and forestry resources for sustainability.		

CAS GE 475: Urban Ecology
           			The biophysical environments and ecology of urban settlements. Key topics include the physical   environment, patterns in human population growth and development, ecosystem structure and function,   global change, urban environment pollution and management, and sustainable urban development. Also  offered as CAS BI 475.		

CAS GE 491: Directed Study
           			Directed Study		

CAS GE 492: Directed Study
           			Directed Study.		

CAS GE 501: Advanced Topics in Remote Sensing
           			Examines advanced concepts in radiative transfer and information extraction relevant to remote sensing. Emphasis on applications of digital image processing to remote sensing problems.		

CAS GE 502: Field Measurements for Remote Sensing
           			Field measurements to support remote sensing activities. Theory and measurement of upwelling and downwelling flux fields with field radiometers and spectrometers; forest canopy leaf area using specialized instruments; hemispherical canopy photography; GPS field location and surveying techniques; simple forest mensuration.		

CAS GE 503: Micrometeorology: Energy and Mass Transfer at the Earth's Surface
           			Modern theories and techniques for measurement and analysis of physical processes occuring at the Earth's surface: radiation regimes; energy and mass exchange; agricultural and forest micrometeorology: remote sensing and modeling of land surface properties and processes.		

CAS GE 505: Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
           			Provides a theoretical and practical introduction to Geographic Information Systems (GIS). Introduces the essentials in GIS, methods of data capture and sources of data, nature and characteristics of spatial data and objects, data structures, modeling surfaces, volumes and time, and data uncertainty. Emphasis is on applications. Laboratory exercises included.		

CAS GE 507: Dynamical Oceanography
           			Introduction to the physical ocean system. Physical properties of seawater; essential ocean dynamics; mixing and stirring in the ocean; simple waves; observed current systems and water masses; and coupled atmosphere-ocean variability. Also offered as CAS ES 507.		

CAS GE 519: Energy, Society, and the Environment
           			Focus on applied political economy and the intersection of policy, energy systems, and environmental  systems. Project based learning, with an emphasis on energy technology and obstacles to deployment.		

CAS GE 520: Topics in Energy and Environmental Policy
           			Topics vary from year to year. Topic for Spring 2014: Lead Poisoning Prevention Analysis. Analysis and  follow up of a 2013 study that received responses from more than 40 states about lead poisoning  prevention efforts about unsafe work in child-occupied buildings. Students identify and consult experts  and learn about lead poisoning prevention.		

CAS GE 521: Environmental Law and Policy
	Survey of the major features of environmental law and relevant procedural and  constitutional issues. Comparison of practical realities (political, economic,  social, geographic, biological) with the ideal context for what should be.  Projects include legal research and mock advocacy.		

CAS GE 522: Environmental Policy and Decision-Making
	In-depth look at environmental policy and decision-making: how society addresses environmental problems. Includes discussion of the environmental movement, law, science, technology, economics, and international relations. Examines new issues facing environmental professionals and approaches to creating a sustainable world.		

CAS GE 523: Marine Urban Ecology
           			Marine Urban Ecology is an emerging, interdisciplinary field that aims to understand how human and   ecological processes can coexist in human-dominated systems. Topics, ecosystems, and organisms   associated with urbanization in the Greater Boston area. Part of the Marine Semester. Also offered as CAS  GE 523.		

CAS GE 525: Plant Physiological Ecology
           			In-depth treatment of eco-physiological responses of plants and communities to environmental factors and climate change, as well as plant and community level impacts on the environment as manifested primarily in hydrologic, energy, and carbon cycles.		

CAS GE 529: Modeling and Monitoring Terrestrial Ecosystems Processes
           			Analyzes the interface of ecosystem process modeling and remote sensing, modeling terrestrial primary  production, and potential of remote sensing for collecting biotic and abiotic data in ecosystem process  studies.		

CAS GE 530: Forest Ecology
           			The major biotic and abiotic factors influencing forest ecosystem composition, structure and function. Role of solar radiation, hydrology, soils, succession, and management of forest ecosystems. Includes New England case study. Three hours lecture plus discussion. Also meets with CAS BI 530.		

CAS GE 533: Risk Assessment
           			Investigates the science behind regulation designed to protect people from environmental hazards, through a practical focus on chemical hazards. Students develop a working knowledge of the risk assessment process and perform simple risk assessments for chemicals in the environment.  		

CAS GE 536: European Environmental Policy
           			Focuses on key concepts, actors, and issues related to European integration, environmental policy  making, and sustainable development. Also examines transatlantic environmental relations and the role of the European Union in global environmental governance. Also offered as CAS IR 536.		

CAS GE 550: Modeling Environmental and Social Systems
           			Techniques of organizing energy, environmental, or social systems into mathematical computer models. Includes the theory underlying different modeling techniques, programming skills, and a hands-on research project in which students develop their own models.		

CAS GE 555: World Oil Markets
           			The world oil market is explained using the notion of supply chain. Each stage is described in terms of relevant theories from geology, economics, and politics, and how they interact to generate real-world behavior.		

CAS GE 560: Energy Transitions
           			Survey of energy transitions including animal power to wood to coal to petroleum to electricity; analysis of  socioeconomic, political, technological, and environmental causes of energy transitions, and future energy  transitions resulting from fossil fuel depletion, climate change, and sustainable development.		

CAS GE 578: Marine Geographic Information Science
           			Introduction to marine geographic information systems and spatial analysis for conservation, management, and marine landscape ecology. Comparative examples from Gulf of Maine and tropics. Solve problems in coastal zoning and marine park design, whale and coral reef conservation. Also offered as CAS BI 578. 		

CAS GE 585: Ecological Forecasting and Informatics
           			The statistics and informatics of model-data fusion and forecasting: data management, workflows, Bayesian  statistics, uncertainty analysis, fusing multiple data sources, assessing model performance, scenario  development, decision analysis, and data assimilation. Case studies highlight ecological forecasting across a range of subdisciplines.		

CAS GE 594: Global Environmental Negotiation and Policy
           			Key concepts, actors, concerns, and issues related to the process of negotiating global environmental policies. Overview of the international system and environmental problems; an international negotiation simulation; case studies of global agreements on ozone depletion, climate change, desertification, and biodiversity, among others. Meets with CAS IR 594.    		

CAS GE 597: Development and Environment in Latin America
CAS HI 150: Freshman Writing and Research Seminar: War in Literature and Film
           			Explores how young people have experienced combat, killing, suffering, and death, in their own words and through modern films. Wars covered range from medieval Europe and Japan to the Zulu Wars and all the horrors of twentieth-century total war. Satisfies WR 150 requirement.		

CAS HI 151: The Emerging United States to 1865
	Explores how the United States, at first only a series of borderland outposts, became a sprawling national  republic. Investigates factors that brought Americans together and those that tore them apart, as they  struggled passionately over racial, religious, and sectional values.		

CAS HI 152: The United States since 1865
	After the Civil War, Americans created a new urbanizing and industrializing landscape, flush with  immigrants, growing class conflict, and racial divisions. This course explores how, through times of  prosperity, depression, and war, Americans transformed the United States into one of the world's leading  nations.		

CAS HI 175: World History to 1500
	Explores historical and environmental factors influencing how cultures take shape and impact each other.  Examines early global connections and conflicts between people of different continents as well as between  humans, other species, the natural environment, and planet as a whole.		

CAS HI 176: World History after 1500
	Examines the religious encounters, economic rivalries, and military battles produced by European   imperialism in Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, and Asia since 1500. Analyzes how European   colonialism came to dominate the world and nationalist movements succeeded in gaining independence.		

CAS HI 190: History of Boston: Community and Conflict
	Students work with centuries-old objects, manuscripts, letters, and diaries in reconstructing Boston's past.  The course covers witchcraft in America, immigration, and race in depth, with out-of-class visits to  museums, churches, and neighborhoods in the city.		

CAS HI 191: What Is Europe?
	Explores key moments in history when cultural contact prompted Europeans to reconsider how they  defined themselves culturally and geographically. Lectures and discussions are combined with trips to local  museums/archives to analyze the material remains of this process of self-definition.		

CAS HI 200: The Historian's Craft
	Required workshop for majors, normally taken in the sophomore year. Gives students the opportunity to analyze original sources and engage with leading works of historical scholarship. Explores how historians reconstruct and interpret the past using creativity, deduction, and contextual analysis. 		

CAS HI 201: History of Medieval Europe
	Traces the evolution of medieval civilization from the fourth to the fourteenth centuries. Emphasizes three  main themes: the political and social development of western Europe, the evolution of Latin Christianity,  and the role of popular culture. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the  same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 203.		

CAS HI 203: Magic, Science, and Religion
	Boundaries and relationships between magic, science, and religion from late antiquity through the  European Enlightenment. Topics include transformation of pagan traditions, distinctions between learned  and popular traditions, Scientific Revolution, and changing assumptions about God and Nature. Also  offered as CAS RN 242. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title  that was previously numbered CAS HI 306.		

CAS HI 204: History of the Crusades
	The origin and development of the Crusade movement in Western Christendom: the first four Crusades, their cause and results; crusader finance, preaching, and military recruitment; changing focus of Crusade movements from the Holy Land to other areas. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 308. 		

CAS HI 205: Millenarian Expectations in Western History, Year 1-2000
	The role of millenarian expectations (belief in an imminent, radical transformation of the world) in the development of the modern West. Apocalyptic expectations and millenarian groups, secularization of millenarian hopes, and disappointed expectations in the emergence of modern industrial society. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 309. 		

CAS HI 207: Honor-Shame: Middle Ages, Modern World
	Considers the dynamics of "honor-shame" cultures generally, then examines their role in the European  Middle Ages and the contemporary world. Attempts to understand how other cultures can emphasize  significantly different values and social interactions from Western ones. This course cannot be taken for  credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 304.		

CAS HI 208: Renaissance Europe
	The main political, socioeconomic, intellectual, and artistic currents in Italy (c. 1350-1530) and  northwestern Europe (c. 1500-1560); emphasis on leading thinkers (Petrarch, Bruni, Machiavelli, Erasmus,  More, and Montaigne) as creators of the modern Western mind.  This course cannot be taken for credit in  addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 311.		

CAS HI 209: The Reformation: Religious Conflict in Early Modern Europe
	Examines religious change in sixteenth- and seventeenth-century Europe, particularly the origins and  causes of the Protestant Reformation, the parallel Catholic Reformation, and the consequent military  conflicts in Germany, France, and the Netherlands. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course with the title "Christendom Divided: Reformation and Religious Conflict in Early Modern Europe"  that was previously numbered CAS HI 312. Also offered as CAS RN 310.		

CAS HI 210: Europe between Renaissance and Revolution
	Surveys the key movements that transformed European culture, politics, and intellectual life between the  fifteenth and eighteenth centuries: the Renaissance, Protestant and Catholic Reformations, new age of  science and exploration, absolutism and constitutional monarchy, Enlightenment, and French Revolution.  This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS HI 204.		

CAS HI 213: Sacred and Secular Power in Christianity and Islam
	Explores the relationship between sacred and secular power within the Christian and Islamic traditions,  with a focus on how their foundational texts and earliest communities established models for negotiating  the porous boundary between the sacred and the secular. Also offered as CAS RN 208.		

CAS HI 214: History of Piracy
	Examines piracy in European history from ancient time to the present, focusing on its economic and social  causes, and its consequences. Addresses too the modern permutations of piracy as a form of social protest  and a technique of terrorism.		

CAS HI 215: The European Enlightenment
	How Europe became modern. The rise of science, critique of religion, and struggle for rights. The public sphere emerges: newspapers, Freemasons, coffee, salons, smut. The invention of a cosmopolitan republic of letters; Voltaire, Diderot, Kant, Adam Smith, Benjamin Franklin. Also offered as CAS PO 393. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 314. 		

CAS HI 216: The Second Sex in European History
	Until recently, most people believed women a "second sex," inferior to men in mind and body. Exploring gender politics and women's lives from the Middle Ages to the present, this course charts a long struggle for equal rights and opportunities.   		

CAS HI 221: Catastrophe & Memory
	Examines the ways in which catastrophes, both natural and social, enter into cultural memory. Goal is to    understand how events that seem to defy comprehension are represented in works of art and given a place    in the memory of a culture. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the title "Catastrophe and Cultural Memory" that was previously numbered CAS HI 248. Also offered as CAS PO 394.		

CAS HI 225: Communications Revolutions from Language to Cyberspace
	History of communications revolutions from the origin of human language through writing to current  global revolutions. Focus on the western socio-political matrix of communications technology, implications  for both cognitive and social relations, and dilemmas created for cultures by the increased flow of  information. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was  previously numbered CAS HI 348.		

CAS HI 229: The Great Powers and the Eastern Mediterranean
	The Eastern Mediterranean as center of Great Power confrontation. Its impact on wider international  relations, the domestic political results, the role of sea power, and the origins, conduct, and resolution of  wars. Also offered as CAS IR 325. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the  same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 344.		

CAS HI 234: Introduction to India and South Asia
	A survey of South Asian history from antiquity to the present. Considers pre-modern empires, the rise of  the British Empire in South Asia, and the struggle for independence. Explores the modern politics and culture of India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh.		

CAS HI 237: Reconstructing the African Past
	Explores the richness and diversity of a continent where oral histories and environmental settings have  shaped society as much as written records. Considers Africa's critical place in the world from ancient Egypt  and Ghana to the Asante and Ethiopian empires. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  courses with the same title that were previously numbered CAS HI 291 and CAS HI 347. Carries social  science divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS HI 244: England in the Middle Ages
	England's development from the Celtic Age to the Tudor dynasty. Emphasizes social and religious/intellectual changes within the broader context of England's unique political evolution from a strife-torn backwater to a leading European power. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 318.		

CAS HI 245: Tudor England, 1485-1603
	A survey of that turbulent and volatile century that witnessed the apprenticeship of England for a role of world importance. Special attention to the development of state power, the growth of religious diversity, the major economic and social transformations, as well as the resulting cultural development. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 319.		

CAS HI 247: The Making of Modern Britain
	How did a small island nation develop into a global superpower, and at what costs? This course charts Britain's ascendancy in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, with a focus on industrialization, colonial expansion, democratic institution building, and enlightenment thought. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 321.		

CAS HI 248: Modern Britain, 1867 to Present
	A political, social, and cultural history of England with emphasis on the impact of the two world wars, the   emergence of the welfare state, the loss of empire, and Britain's relations with Europe. This course cannot   be taken for credit in addition to the course titled "Twentieth-Century Britain" that was previously  numbered CAS HI 322.		

CAS HI 264: French Feudal Society, 496-1339
	The development after the barbarian invasions of a new society based on landholding and personal  loyalties. Examination of its social tensions and warfare, the role of women, chivalry, the growth of towns  and universities, and the centralism of Capetian and Valois kings. This course cannot be taken for credit in  addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 331.		

CAS HI 266: French Revolution and Napoleon
	The French Revolution began with high ideals of liberty and equality but quickly dissolved into civil war, the Terror, and Napoleon's expansionist ambitions. From the fall of the Bastille to Waterloo, this course traces the revolution's successes, failures, and legacy. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 333. 		

CAS HI 272: The History of Imperial Russia
	Focuses on the history of Russia under the Romanov Dynasty and its establishment as a Eurasian power  and empire. Emphasizes issues of religious, ethnic, and cultural diversity, modernization, reform and  revolt, and the vexed question of Russian identity. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course entitled "History of Russia, 1689-1917" that was previously numbered CAS HI 345 or the course  that was numbered CAS HI 272 and previously entitled "Russia and Its Empires until 1900."		

CAS HI 274: Topics in Modern Russian and Soviet History, 1861Â1956
	Focuses on nineteenth- and twentieth-century Russian and Soviet history with attention to political,  socioeconomic, and cultural transformations as well as war, religion, thought, and ideology. Topics vary  from year to year. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with entitled "Issues in  Modern Russian and Soviet History, 1861-1956" that was previously numbered CAS HI 347 and CAS HI  274.		

CAS HI 275: History of the Jews in Russia and Eastern Europe
	A comprehensive survey of the history of the Jewish communities of Poland, Russia, and Eastern Europe  from the middle of the eighteenth century until today. Topics include economic, social, religious, cultural, and political developments affecting Jews and Europeans generally. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 337.		

CAS HI 276: Jewish Culture
	What is "Jewish," or not, about "Jewish culture?" Examines how urbanization, Jewish assimilation,  cosmopolitanism, and Jewish nationalism can be seen in music, art, literature, and theater. Looks at how  cultural exchange between Jews and non-Jews helped shape our world today. This course may not be taken  for credit in addition to the course by the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 343.		

CAS HI 278: Central Europe
	Intellectual, cultural, political, diplomatic, and military history of the region between Germany and Russia, from the end of the Middle Ages to the present. Also offered as CAS IR 341. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 341.		

CAS HI 279: Intimate Histories of War
	An analysis of the intimate, personal aspects of modern warfare through diaries, letters, songs, material  culture, and more. Explores how the twentieth century's unprecedented global conflict penetrated everyday  lives, affecting the bodies, vocabularies, and world views of men, women, and children.		

CAS HI 280: Special Topics in American History
	Topic for Fall 2014: Wars, Peace, and Diplomacy. Why do wars occur? What constitutes peace and how is it  maintained?  What are the virtues and deficiencies of diplomacy as practitioners have sought to implement  it?  Readings center on international politics texts and the U.S. foreign policy record. Also offered as CAS  PO 380.		

CAS HI 282: The Modern American Consumer
	Do we control consumer culture or does it control us?  Explores the rise of mass marketing, advertising,  branding, department stores, commercial amusements, and shoppertainment, with attention to gender,  ethnicity, youth, and social class. Examines critiques and the politics of consumerism.		

CAS HI 283: The Twentieth-Century American Presidency
	Examines the shifting role of the presidency in American politics, especially over the course of the twentieth century. Considers not only the accomplishments of individual presidents and institutional changes in the executive branch but also the evolving place of the presidency in American popular culture. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 372. 		

CAS HI 284: History of War
	Why do we make war? Nothing else so engages the human genius for creative destruction. From crossbows to nuclear fire, this course traces five centuries of war to uncover depths of depravity and cruelty and heights of sacrifice and suffering. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 307.		

CAS HI 286: The American Military Experience
	Investigates how the United States waged war during the twentieth century-- and continues to wage war  since 9/11. Why and how do Americans fight? Who serves and who sacrifices? With what consequences for  American democracy? Also offered as CAS IR 320. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 370.		

CAS HI 287: History of American Foreign Relations since 1898
	Analysis of the history of American foreign policy from the perspective of the changing world and regional  international systems; emphasis on the effect of these systems and the impact of America on the creation  and operation of international systems. Also offered as CAS PO 381. This course cannot be taken for credit  in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 366.		

CAS HI 288: American Foreign Policy Since 1945
	America's tradition and heritage in foreign policy. American foreign policy during the Cold War. Conflicting  approaches to the formulation of American foreign policy in the current international environment.  Domestic and institutional actors in policy formulation: Congress, media, Presidency, CIA, military. Also  offered as CAS IR 376. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title  that was previously numbered CAS HI 376.		

CAS HI 291: Politics of the American Environment
	When have Americans addressed declining resources and ecological deterioration? Why hasn't every  environmental problem provoked a policy response? This course examines how debates over  environmental rights and risks shaped U.S. political history from the country's beginning to the present.  This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was  previously  numbered CAS HI 360.		

CAS HI 292: Capitalism in America: Economic History of the US
	Surveys the history of corporations and private enterprise since the Civil War, disentangling the evolving  relationships between business and government and tracing the influence of money, markets, and their  managers in American communities from factories to the frontiers. This course cannot be taken for credit  in addition to the course with the title "Money, Markets & Managers: Economic History of the United States"  that was previously numbered CAS HI 377.		

CAS HI 294: American Evangelicalism
	Major trends in American Evangelicalism, from the colonial awakenings and religious reform to the  contemporary Christian Right. Focus on how evangelicals have negotiated and shaped central tenets of  American culture, including understandings of gender, race, performance, nation, sexuality, and  economics. Also offered as CAS RN 368.		

CAS HI 295: Religious Controversies and the Law
	Explores a major challenge faced by modern states, namely the regulation of religion. Case studies from  Europe, North America, and Israel demonstrate the ways in which governments have weighed religious  freedom against other social and legal values, rights, and needs.		

CAS HI 298: African American History
	The history of African Americans from African origins to present time; consideration of slavery, reconstruction, and ethnic relations from the colonial era to our own time. Also offered as CAS AA 371. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS HI 371.		

CAS HI 299: History of the Civil Rights Movement
	History of the African American struggle for racial equality and democracy from the turn of the century  through the 1960s. Use is made of the most recent scholarship, memoirs, documentary films, and oral  history accounts. Also offered as CAS AA 310. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 378.		

CAS HI 300: American Popular Culture
	Examines how Americans have changed (and haven't) since the nineteenth century by exploring their curious beliefs, social and sexual practices, and changing understandings of selfhood. Topics include Victorian etiquette, modern city pleasures, racial stereotyping, dating rituals, family dynamics, and more. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 379.		

CAS HI 301: A History of Women in the United States
	Examines the ideas and experiences of women in the United States from the 1600s through the late  twentieth century. Considers the common factors that shaped women's lives as well as women's diverse  class, ethnic, and regional experiences. Also offered as CAS AM 375. This course cannot be taken for  credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 375.		

CAS HI 302: Science and American Culture
	Examines the rise of the natural and human sciences as influential forces in American society. Considers why they gained considerable authority in realms of medicine and technology but have proven far more limited in their impact on morality and religion. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition  to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 368.		

CAS HI 303: Sex, Love, Family: Relationships in Recent American History and Pop Culture
	Explores modern American romance and family dynamics, especially since the 1970s. Follows the life cycle  from birth to death, surveying common milestones and rituals such as coming of age, coming out, getting  married, or having a midlife crisis, and more.		

CAS HI 304: Science and Religion: Dialogue and Debate
	Challenges conventional wisdom that science and religion have always been at war in Europe and North  America.  Explores their interactions, mutual existence, and conflict from Copernicus' claim that the earth  revolved around the sun to contemporary debates about evolution. Also offered as CAS RN 369. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course entitled "Science and Christianity" that was previously numbered CAS HI 369.		

CAS HI 305: American Thought and Culture, 1776-1900
	Examines how intellectuals constructed an "exceptional" American identity by adjusting provincial Protestant and Enlightenment traditions to the challenges of transnational democratic, Romantic, and secular thought. Topics include Transcendentalism, pro- and anti-slavery movements, philosophical idealism, literary realism, and Darwinian theories. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 373.		

CAS HI 306: American Thought and Culture, 1900 to the Present
	Investigates how American thinkers brought about an intellectual revolution in three challenging moments: the naturalist revolt in pragmatic philosophy and modern art; progressive liberals' confrontations with radicalism and new conservatisms; and poststructuralists' uncertain leap beyond modernist science, religion, and humanities. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 374. 		

CAS HI 308: Religious Thought in America
	Surveys many of the strategies that American religious thinkers have adopted for interpreting the cosmos,   the social order and human experience, and the interaction of those strategies with broader currents of   American culture. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that    was previously numbered CAS HI 354.		

CAS HI 309: Americans in the World: The United States in Transnational Perspective
	Examines how artists, activists, migrants, tourists, and other travelers have connected United States society with people and cultures around the world. Considers how foreign criticism, popular wartime experiences, global integration, and more have shaped American culture and the modern nation-state. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course entitled "Americans in the World: United States History in Transnational Perspective" that was previously numbered CAS HI 367.		

CAS HI 312: Modernism and Modernity: History and Literature of the United States between the World Wars
           			Modernism and modernity in America from the 1920s to the 1940s: two world wars, Jazz Age, Harlem Renaissance, Great Depression. Team-taught with both professors leading discussions on literature and history of the times, Historical readings alongside Hemingway, Faulkner, Fitzgerald, Hurston, others. Also offered as CAS EN 546.		

CAS HI 313: Internships in Public History
           			Students undertake supervised work in Boston-area institutions dedicated to the public presentation of  America's past. Students meet with the instructor to discuss themes in public history theory and practice  that, together with the internship experience and related readings, inform a final research project and class  presentation. Also offered as CAS AM 313.		

CAS HI 321: The American Revolution, 1750-1800
	Examines America's dramatic war for independence, situating the colonies' struggles within a series of broader challenges in the Atlantic world. Also shows how Americans struggled, often violently, to create a stable republic in the aftermath of these truly revolutionary upheavals. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 356.		

CAS HI 328: The Civil War Era
	Social, economic, and political consequences of slavery; Southern secession and the Civil War; political reconstruction; the New South; and the betrayal of black rights. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 361.   		

CAS HI 332: History of International Relations, 1900-45
	The causes and consequences of the First World War; the search for postwar reconstruction and stability   during the twenties; economic collapse, revolutionary nationalism, and fascism during the 1930s; the   Second World War and the advent of the bipolar world. Also offered as CAS IR 349. This course cannot be   taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 349 and  CAS HI 289.		

CAS HI 334: History of International Relations since 1945
	The causes and consequences of the Soviet-American Cold War from its origins in Europe to its extension  to Asia, Africa, and Latin America. The rise of the multipolar international system, the emergence of the  nonaligned blocs, and inter- and intra-alliance conflicts. Also offered as CAS IR 350. This course cannot be  taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 350 or  CAS HI 290.		

CAS HI 337: America in Depression and War, 1890 to 1945
	Examines how the modern United States was forged in the economic depressions of the 1890s and 1930s, and shaped by imperial and global ambitions beginning with the Spanish-American War and culminating with World War I and World War II. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course entitled "The United States, 1900-1945" that was previously numbered CAS HI 363.		

CAS HI 338: Cold War America, 1945-68
	Investigates how the ideological and strategic Cold War between the United States and the Soviet Union shaped American society. Emphasis on the consensus in domestic opinion, the civil rights movement, political and cultural dissent, and the road to Vietnam. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course entitled "The United States, 1945-68" that was previously numbered CAS HI 364.		

CAS HI 339: A History of the Present: The United States since 1968
	Surveys American society since the upheavals of the 1960s. Topics include war, politics, religion, and popular culture as well as changing notions about race, gender, and selfhood. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course entitled "The United States since 1968" that was previously numbered CAS HI 365.		

CAS HI 341: Political and Cultural Revolution
	Comparative historical analysis of modern and contemporary revolutionary upheavals and cultural change    in Europe, the Americas, East Asia, Africa, Middle East, and the former Soviet republics. Examines the   challenges posed by modernization, crisis of legitimacy, nationalism, imperial decline, and globalization.  This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS HI 215.		

CAS HI 342: Imperialism and Independence
	Examines nineteenth- and twentieth-century imperialist and independence movements, focusing on the colonial projects in Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, and Asia. Analyzes imperialist ideologies and the roles nationalism, liberalism, communism, and socialism played in independence movements. 		

CAS HI 343: Taste, Culture, and Power: The Global History of Food
	An exploration of the global history of food from prehistory to the present, considering the birth of  agriculture, food in nations and empires, hunger and nutrition, and the future of eating, including  examples from Asia, Africa, Europe, and the Americas.		

CAS HI 346: History of International Human Rights
	Meets with CAS IR 348. History of international human rights since the eighteenth century. Examines  political, social, economic rights, the UN Charter, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and related  international conventions, enforcement, regionalism, globalization, and NGOs. Analyzes tensions between  national sovereignty and human rights.		

CAS HI 348: Colonialism in Africa: Impact and Aftermath
	Uses case studies of particular African societies or nations to examine patterns of European conquest and African resistance; forms of colonial administration and socioeconomic consequences of colonial rule; decolonization and contemporary African liberation movements; economic and political developments since independence; and contemporary social and cultural change. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 292.		

CAS HI 349: History of Religion in Precolonial Africa
	The study of the development of religious traditions in Africa during the period prior to European colonialism. An emphasis on both indigenous religions and the growth and spread of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam in the continent as a whole. Also offered as CAS AA 382 and CAS RN 382. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 382.		

CAS HI 350: Atlantic History
	Examines the various interactions that shaped the Atlantic World, connecting Europe, Africa, and the Americas between 1400 and 1800. Begins by defining the political interaction, then emphasizes cultural exchange, religious conversion, and the revolutionary era. Also offered as CAS AA 385. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 385. 		

CAS HI 351: Environmental History of Africa
	Focus on the African environment and ecological systems over the past 150 years. Topics include climatic  change, hydrography, agriculture, deforestation, soil erosion, disease, conservation, famine, and the role  of colonialism and government policy in environmental change. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 394.		

CAS HI 352: Power, Leadership, and Governance in Africa and the Caribbean
	Haitian Revolution; British Caribbean, leadership, governance, and power in Africa during the period of legitimate trade; visionaries, dictators, and nationalist politics in the Caribbean; chiefs, western elites, and nationalism in colonial Africa; road to governance in post-colonial Caribbean and Africa. Also offered as CAS AA 395 and IR 394. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 395.		

CAS HI 354: History and Religion: North African Issues
           			Explores how the colonial experience shaped North African culture and society, and how the North African  postcolonial state negotiated the legacy of colonialism and responded to the dynamics underpinning global  politics. Also offered as CAS RN 346 E. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course  with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 384 E.		

CAS HI 361: Black Radical Thought
	Black radical thought in America, Europe, and Africa since the eighteenth century through writings of  abolitionists, leaders of revolutions and liberation movements, Black nationalists, and Black socialists.  Emphasizes the global nature of the "Black World" and its role in world history. Also offered as CAS AA  388. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was  previously numbered CAS HI 388.		

CAS HI 363: Early Chinese History
	From the Bronze Age to the seventeenth century, China changed dramatically yet maintained political and cultural cohesion, unlike any other civilization. This courses explores both diversity and unity in early Chinese society as well as their historical legacies. This course cannot be  taken for credit in addition to the course entitled "Introduction to Early Chinese History" that was previously numbered CAS HI 389.		

CAS HI 364: Modern Chinese History
	Since 1600, China experienced Manchu imperial expansion, conflict with the West, two revolutions, and the construction of a socialist society now dominated by authoritarian capitalism. Explores the interplay between enduring traditions, upheaval and modernity and their consequences for our world. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course entitled "Introduction to Modern Chinese History" that was previously numbered CAS HI 390.		

CAS HI 365: Shanghai: The Key to Modern China?
           			The social, cultural, political, and economic history of Shanghai is used as a lens to understand the making  of modern China. Themes include the role of the city's colonial past in shaping its history. Students visit  significant sights and museums. Also offered as CAS IR 371 E. This course cannot be taken for credit in  addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 387.		

CAS HI 369: Introduction to Modern Japanese History
	Developments from late Tokugawa Japan and the Meiji Restoration (1868) to the present. Focus on Japan's  economic, political, and social adjustment to modern times, the evolution of twentieth century Japanese  imperialism, and Japan's growth after World War II. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 391.		

CAS HI 370: The Samurai in Myth and History
	Explores how samurai, Japan's (in)famous warrior class, defined themselves, and how others have portrayed them in literature, art, plays, film, and animation from ancient times to the present. Investigates why samurai ideals have become the most widely recognized Japanese "tradition." Also offered as CAS LJ 282. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 381.		

CAS HI 377: The Sword, the Cross, and the Crescent: Byzantium and the Near East
	Examines Byzantine society and culture, focusing on conflicts and cooperation with the Islamic East until 1453, when Muslim Ottomans captured Constantinople and radically altered life and politics in the eastern Mediterranean. Explores lessons from Byzantine-Muslim relations for the twenty-first century. 		

CAS HI 379: Modern Armenian History and Literature
	Introduction to modern Armenian history and literature from the nineteenth-century "cultural renaissance" to the upheavals of the twentieth century--genocide, independence, and Sovietization--and the literatures of Soviet Armenia and the diaspora. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 277.		

CAS HI 382: Turko-Persia in the Twentieth Century
	The twentieth-century history of the non-Arab Muslim Middle East, i.e., Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan, and Central Asia. Analysis of the constitutional revolutions in Turkey and Iran, Kemalism, the Islamic revolution in Iran, and communism in the Soviet Union and Afghanistan. Also offered as CAS IR 328. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 398.  		

CAS HI 383: Modern History and Geopolitics of the Caucasus
	Surveys history of the Caucasus with a focus on Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Georgia, from the early nineteenth century to the post-Soviet period. Explores advantages and problems of modernization, nationalism, and major power geopolitics within the context of international political economy. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 399. 		

CAS HI 384: History of Genocide
	History and comparative analysis of genocidal mass murder with focus on the twentieth century. Hereros, Armenians, holomodor, Holocaust, Cambodia, Rwanda, Darfur. Attention to political leaders, state ideology, dehumanization of victim groups, geopolitical competition, war, empire building and decline.		

CAS HI 387: Introduction to the Middle East
           			General introduction to the history, culture, and current development in the Middle East. Objective is to introduce students to a specific geographical and historical experience, as well as to acquaint them with some of the literature in the field. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the  same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 392.		

CAS HI 389: Americans and the Middle East
	Examines the intersecting histories of America and the Middle East from the late eighteenth century to the present, focusing first on American missionary and educational efforts in the region and then on American political and military involvement after World War II. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 393.		

CAS HI 392: The History of Israel: An Introduction
	Using a broad array of readings, popular music, documentaries, film and art, this course explores Israel's  political system, culture, and society, including the status of minorities in the Jewish state; post-1967  Israeli settlement projects; and the struggle for Israel's identity. Meets with CAS LH 284.		

CAS HI 393: Topics in the History of Israel
	Special topics in the history of Israel. Topics differ from year to year. Topic for Fall 2013: The Israeli-Palestinian Conflict. The challenges of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, historical trajectories, conflicting narratives,and possible solutions through primary sources and film. Students present reflections on the history of the conflict, debate its future implications, and discuss challenges both societies are facing.		

CAS HI 394: U.S.-Mexican Borders
	Examines the geographic border, as well as political and cultural boundaries inside Mexico and the U.S.,  from 1848 to the present. Topics include immigration, Mexican-American culture and politics, the Chicano  Movement, economic development, gangs, the drug trade, music and art.		

CAS HI 397: Modern Latin America
	Political, economic, and cultural evolution of Latin American republics. Nineteenth-century conflicts over "civilization" vs "barbarism," liberalism vs conservatism, and slavery. Democracy and military rule in the twentieth century and efforts to create new forms of politics and citizenship. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 386.		

CAS HI 401: Senior Honors Seminar 1
           			The first of a two-semester seminar that guides students through the research and writing of an honors  thesis grounded in primary historical research. Students participate in a workshop environment and are  matched with an additional faculty advisor.		

CAS HI 402: Senior Honors Seminar 2
           			The second of a two-semester seminar that guides students through the research and writing of an honors  thesis grounded in primary historical research. Students participate in a workshop environment and are  matched with an additional faculty advisor.		

CAS HI 406: Monks, Friars, and Saints
           			Examines various aspects of the concept of holiness in medieval society. Principal focus on the monastic and mendicant orders, tracing the changing ideals of Christian sanctity and the impact of those ideals on social movements, economic developments, and state policies.		

CAS HI 407: Topics in Medieval Religious Culture
           			Topic for Fall 2013: Christian, Muslim, and Jew: Religion, Community, and Culture in Medieval Spain. Interactions between Muslims, Christians, and Jews in medieval Europe's most religiously diverse region -  from the establishment of an Islamic al-Andalus in 711 CE to the final Christian "reconquest" of the  peninsula and expulsion of the Jews in 1492 CE. Also offered as CAS RN 470.		

CAS HI 408: War in Film and Literature
	This course explores, through works of film and literature, human experiences of combat, suffering, and  death. Topics range from medieval Japan to Africa, the Americas and Europe, WWI, WWII, and various "small  wars" from the 19th through 21st centuries.		

CAS HI 409: Medieval Science and Technology
	Introduction to medieval science and technology, including the Greek and Roman inheritance, the transmission of Greek science to Europe by the Arabs, and medieval developments leading to the Scientific Revolution.		

CAS HI 410: Religion, Community, and Culture in Medieval Spain
	Interactions between Muslims, Christians, and Jews in medieval Europe's most religiously diverse region --  from the establishment of an Islamic al-Andalus in 711 CE to the final Christian "reconquest" of the  peninsula and expulsion of the Jews in 1492 CE. Also offered as CAS RN 410.		

CAS HI 414: Society and Culture in Early Modern Europe
	Examines selected topics in the history of Europe between the Renaissance and the Age of Revolution. The current offering focuses on the persecution of religious dissents, minorities, and witches; Wars of Religion; and the slow spread of ideas of toleration. 		

CAS HI 426: Music and Ideas from Mozart to the Jazz Age
           			Studies masterpieces of music alongside relevant works of fiction, philosophy, criticism, and cultural history to situate compositions in their larger context. The course includes music by such artists as Beethoven, Wagner, and Schoenberg, as well as Davis, Coltrane, and Ellington. 		

CAS HI 434: Monarchy in Modern Britain
           			A seminar probing seminal moments in the history of modern British sovereignty, when the politics of the   court intersected with the politics of the people. Particular consideration is given to how monarchy has  survived as an institution.		

CAS HI 435: Histories of Human Rights
           			Traces Westerners' development of a humanitarian sensibility in the eighteenth century and considers how this sensibility was deployed in struggles over the rights of various groups during the modern period. Emphasis on Anglo-American contributions.		

CAS HI 436: The Great War and the Fragile Peace
	Exploration of the military, political, social, economic, and cultural consequences of the First World War and the peace conference of 1919. Focuses on technological innovations, the expanded role of the state, and the long-range impact of the Versailles settlement. Also offered as CAS IR 436.		

CAS HI 446: Revolutionary Russia
	Examines how Russian state and society transformed from an autocratic empire into a radical socialist  federation in the early twentieth century. Explores competing ideologies, popular culture, and political  violence and considers interpretations and legacies of the revolutions after 1917. 		

CAS HI 448: Science and Modern Culture: Darwin, Freud, and Einstein
	Development of scientific theories of Darwin, Freud, and Einstein; impact of those ideas in different national cultures and their influence on literature, art, religion, and politics of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. 		

CAS HI 449: The History of Soviet Terror
           			Examines how terror became a tool of revolutionary transformation in the USSR, one which first  strengthened, then unseated Soviet state power. Explores how Soviet people experienced and participated  in such violence as a part of their everyday lives.		

CAS HI 450: Topics in the History of Popular Culture
	Focuses on various themes and debates in the history of popular culture. Takes everyday artifacts seriously  to understand how people have organized their lives and explained the world around them through stories,  images, music, advertisements, entertainments, and more.		

CAS HI 453: Three Revolutions
           			Examines how the English civil wars, the Glorious Revolution, and the American Revolution fundamentally altered assumptions about government in the English-speaking world. Faced with these interrelated upheavals, writers form Shakespeare to Jefferson pioneered modern understandings of self and society. 		

CAS HI 454: War and American Society, 1607-2001
           			Although committed to democracy, individual liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, Americans have frequently found themselves waging war. This course examines how war mobilization and the experience of combat since the settling of Jamestown have fundamentally changed American society. 		

CAS HI 455: Early American History and Culture
	Explores how religious schisms and revival, warfare with native Americans, political revolution, and commercial development transformed New England from a Puritanical agricultural society into an urbanized, industrial society by the outbreak of the American Civil War. 		

CAS HI 461: The Civil War in American Memory
	Examines the ways in which Americans have thought about the experiences of the Civil War, from the immediate postwar period through the later years of the twentieth century.		

CAS HI 465: The United States and the Cold War
	Examination of U.S. Cold War foreign policy from its origins at the end of World War II to the collapse of the Berlin Wall and of the Soviet Union. Also offered as CAS IR 465.		

CAS HI 467: Postwar America: Issues in Political, Cultural, and Social History, 1945-69
	Explores how, after the upheavals of World War II, American fought over and refashioned new norms and ideals in politics, daily life, and the home, Topics include youth rebellion, the African American freedom movement, antiwar activism, and the sexual revolution. 		

CAS HI 468: American Society since 1970: Issues in Domestic Political, Cultural, and Social History
	A historical investigation of the United States at the end of the American century, including Watergate and the imperial presidency, stagflation, the "New Politics" and the "Me Decade," conservatism, feminism, race relations, religion, politics, culture, community and family life.  		

CAS HI 482: Merchants, Pirates, Missionaries, and the State in Maritime Asia, 600-2000
           			Oceans connected the peoples of coastal Asia, Africa, and Oceania long before the arrival of Europeans in the 1500s. This course examines how commerce, piracy, religious contact, and imperialisms shaped maritime Asia, and how oceans facilitated our own era's global connections. 		

CAS HI 487: The Making of Modern China, 1600 to the present
           			Explores continuity and change between later imperial China and the Republican and Communist eras. Examines family and gender structures, ethnic classifications, and military traditions in late dynastic times and how revolution brought change from within and abroad. 		

CAS HI 488: Interwar Japan and the Pacific War
	An examination of the cultural, social, and political impact of World War I on Japanese society; the nature of Taisho liberalism; 1930s militaristic nationalism, with emphasis on the role of the United States leading into and beyond World War II.		

CAS HI 491: Directed Study
           					

CAS HI 492: Directed Study
           					

CAS HI 496: Ideology and Conflict in World History
	Connects the ideas of European Enlightenment and Romanticism with imperialism, nationalism, fascism, liberalism, communism, and socialism and analyzes the spread of these ideas to Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, and Asia. 		

CAS HI 502: Drafts of History: Journalism and Historical Revisionism
	Considers episodes from U.S. history, comparing the "draft" of journalists to subsequent historical  accounts. Analyzes how new evidence alters understanding of events, but also how different eras ask  questions about the past, interrogate different sources, and appeal to different audiences.		

CAS HI 503: Psychohistory
           			Addresses the "Whys?" of history and focuses on the application of Freudian analysis and other psychological models to interpret past individual and group behavior. Emphasizes two key subfields: psychobiography and group psychohistory. 		

CAS HI 514: Enlightenment and Its Critics
           			Explores how eighteenth-century criticisms of the Enlightenment have been taken up by twentieth-century  thinkers such as Heidegger, Horkheimer, Adorno, Gadamer, and Foucault; discusses recent defenses of  Enlightenment ideals of reason, critique and autonomy by Habermas and others. Also offered as CAS PO  592 and CAS PH 412.		

CAS HI 524: The Cold War in Latin America
	Meets with CAS IR 524. Analyzes the Cold War as experienced in Latin America. Examines government  policies, social movements,  economic conditions, and power struggles across Latin America. Compares  episodes of direct and indirect  intervention by the United States as well as Latin American responses.		

CAS HI 525: Development in Historical Perspective
	A critical investigation of modern "development" practices and projects in Asia, Africa, and the Americas.   Explores the rise of development paradigms in the nineteenth century and key twentieth-century  transformations; interrogates challenges to, critiques of, and reaffirmations of global development  schemes.		

CAS HI 533: Empire and Power: British Foreign Policy, 1782-Present
	Examines the evolution of British foreign policy over time as well as the nature of Great Power rivalry. Key themes include formulation of national diplomatic strategies, policy coordination, diplomatic vs. military  considerations, alliance politics, and policy over-stretch. Also offered as CAS IR 514. 		

CAS HI 537: World War II: Causes, Course, Consequences
	Hitler, Mussolini, Tojo, Churchill, Roosevelt, Stalin, and 75 million ordinary and extraordinary dead. From 1939-1945, the whole world waged total war in cruel ways unknown to any history before or since. Explore the causes, course, and consequences of these events. 		

CAS HI 549: Nationalism in the Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries
           			Explores the origins of modern nationalism as a major force, molding identity and motivating politics. Examines the relationship between nationalism, revolution, and war, as well as the challenges presented by ethnic revivalism, ethnonational conflicts, and globalization. 		

CAS HI 560: The American Transcendentalists
           			Led by Emerson, Thoreau, Bronson Alcott, Margaret Fuller, and others, the Transcendentalists constituted  the first "counter-cultural" movement in American history. Seminar focuses on how and why they did so  within the philosophical, religious, literary, antislavery, communitarian, and ecological currents they  inhabited.		

CAS HI 568: The Modern Metropolis: Approaches to Urban History
           			Cities such as New York, Paris, London, and Shanghai captured the worst problems and most exciting possibilities of the late-nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. This course investigates how urban spaces facilitated commerce, social life, and the forging of modern identitities. 		

CAS HI 580: The History of Racial Thought
	Study of racial thinking and feeling in Europe and the United States since the fifteenth  century. Racial thinking in the context of Western encounters with non-European people  and Jews; its relation to social, economic, cultural, and political trends. Also offered as CAS AA 580.		

CAS HI 584: Labor, Sexuality, and Resistance in the Afro-Atlantic World
           			The role of slavery in shaping the society and culture of the Afro-Atlantic world, highlighting the role of  labor, the sexual economy of slave regimes, and the various strategies of resistance deployed by enslaved people. Also offered as CAS AA 514.		

CAS HI 588: Women, Power, and Culture in Africa
           			Understanding the role of women in African history. Topics include the Atlantic slave trade, power, religion, the economy, resistance movements, health, the state, and kinship. Emphasis on the period before independence. Also offered as CAS AA 588. 		

CAS HI 589: Nature's Past: Histories of Environment and Society
           			Explores approaches in environmental history and asks how non-human actors, together with human  agents, determined historical outcomes and shaped ecological, technological, demographic, political, and  cultural change. Cases are selected from North America, Latin America, Europe, Asia, and Africa.		

CAS HI 590: The World and the West
CAS HI 596: Muslim Societies: An Interdisciplinary History
           			Examines the states, empires, faiths, and ideologies of the Muslim world over a 1500-year period, including states from North and West Africa, through the Middle East, to Turkey, Iran, and then to Central and Southeast Asia. Also offered as CAS AH 539, AN 548, and RN 563. 		

CAS HI 597: Diasporas and Identity
           			History of diasporan commercial networks during the past four centuries in the West and other parts of the  world, and emergence of modern global political economy. Focuses on transformation from exilic  nationalism to diasporization, transnationalism, and deterritorialization of diasporic identity.		

CAS ID 116: Africa Today: The Beat of Popular Culture
	Core course in the African Studies minor. Provides a fresh view of African popular culture through the lens of contemporary literature, film, television, music, dance, and the visual arts. 		

CAS IR 206: Introduction to the Sociology of Globalization
	(Meets with CAS SO 206.) A sociological introduction to globalization. Explores the roles of technology,  transnational corporations, and the state. Considers globalization's impacts on the workplace, the  environment, and other institutions as well as the emergence of global social movements.		

CAS IR 230: Fundamentals of International Politics
	Introduction to basic concepts of international politics: the state system and types of states, modern ideologies, legal frameworks of international transactions, and political regions. Also raises key issues such as population, the environment, war, and international law. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS IR 242: Globalization and World Poverty
	(Meets with CAS SO 242.) Globalization and world poverty; how and why over 80% of the world remains poor and inequality increases despite economic modernization and democratization. Addresses urbanization, immigration, religion, politics, development politics, foreign aid, women, drugs, environment, food security. Special attention to Latin American, African, and Asian experiences. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS IR 250: Europe and International Relations
	Meets with CAS PO 343. Provides an overview European affairs. Topics include the foreign policies of  European nations, the dynamics of European integration, NATO, international migration and ethnic conflict,  and European relations with the United States, Russia, and neighboring countries.		

CAS IR 251: Introduction to Comparative Politics
	Meets with CAS PO 151. Examines different patterns of political development and contemporary politics in  Western Europe, Latin America, Africa, and the former Soviet bloc. Introduces the comparative method in  political science and competing theories of political development and political change. 		

CAS IR 271: Introduction to International Relations
	(Meets with CAS PO 171.) Undergraduate required principal course. Study of basic factors in international relations, Western state systems, the concept of balance of power, nationalism, and imperialism. Primarily for majors and minors. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS IR 275: The Pacific Challenge
	(Meets with CAS PO 350.) The dynamic growth of Pacific Rim countries poses an impressive array of  challenges for the U.S. and the world. Analyzes Japanese trade and defense policies, the rise of the "mini- dragons" (Taiwan, South Korea, Hong Kong, and Singapore) and "new mini-dragons" (Indonesia, Thailand,  and Malaysia), "Confucian capitalism," democratization (and its failure in China), and legacies of the  Indochina war. 		

CAS IR 290: Drugs and Security in the Americas
	Drug trafficking is one of the greatest threats to security and stability in the Americas. In this class, we  study how drug trafficking became such an immense problem and why it has been so difficult to solve.		

CAS IR 292: Fundamentals of International Economics
           			Basic issues of international finance. Topics include the balance of payment adjustment, theories of exchange rate determination, and case studies in international economic policy. Geared for international relations students; does not count toward economics requirements for economics concentrators. 		

CAS IR 300: Topics in International Relations
	Examines various aspects of international relations. Topics vary each semester. Topic for Fall 2014:  Introduction to Middle East Politics. Survey of political changes across the Middle East since World War I.  Focuses on role of colonial legacies in state formation; relationship between of economic development and  regime-type; role of Islamist opposition movements; and international intervention and regional conflicts.		

CAS IR 304: Environmentally Sustainable Development
	 (Meets with CAS EE 304.) Traces the emergence of sustainable development as the defining environmental challenge of our times. Surveys and evaluates policies for balancing ecological sustainability and economic development in various parts of the world and at the global level.		

CAS IR 310: The Sea and International Relations
           			Covers the world's seas in areas of resource exploitation, use of commercial transport, the deployment of maritime power, environmental issues, possible use by terrorists, and the associated body of international law.		

CAS IR 318: Religion and American Foreign Policy
	(Meets with CAS RN 318.) Introduction to the historical roots and contemporary relevance of religion for American foreign policy. Uses conventional chronological approaches to explore key themes that illustrate the role of religion as input and object of American foreign policy.		

CAS IR 320: The American Military Experience
	Meets with CAS HI 286. Investigates how the United States waged war during the twentieth century-- and  continues to wage war since 9/11. Why and how do Americans fight? Who serves and who sacrifices? With  what consequences for American democracy?		

CAS IR 322: Governing Crises: The Political Economy of Financial Booms and Busts
           			Explores how and why financial crises take place,spread across borders, and how to avoid future financial  crises. Uses political, historical, and sociological analysis to address these questions while exploring both  mainstream and alternative economic approaches to financial crises.		

CAS IR 325: The Great Powers and the Eastern Mediterranean
	Meets with CAS HI 229. The Eastern Mediterranean as center of Great Power confrontation. Its impact on  wider international relations, the domestic political results, the role of sea power, and the origins, conduct,  and resolution of wars.		

CAS IR 328: Turko-Persia in the Twentieth Century
	The twentieth-century history of the non-Arab Muslim Middle East, i.e., Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan, and Central Asia. Analysis of the constitutional revolutions in Turkey and Iran, Kemalism, the Islamic revolution in Iran, and communism in the Soviet Union and Afghanistan. Also offered as CAS HI 382.		

CAS IR 330: Diplomatic Practice
	Introduces the practice of diplomacy as management of a country's foreign relations with a view to secure or restore peace. The nation state in diplomatic relations; foreign ministries, diplomatic missions, embassies, and consulates; the peacekeeping role of international law and international government organizations. 		

CAS IR 333: Non-State Actors in International Relations
	Meets with CAS PO 327. Examines the important role of non-state actors in international relations. Non- state actors include subnational governments, international organizations, multinational corporations,  non-governmental organizations, religious groups, violent groups, for-profit security firms, social  movements, and grassroots organizations.		

CAS IR 341: Central Europe
	Intellectual, cultural, political, diplomatic, and military history of the region between Germany and Russia from the end of the Middle Ages to the present. Also offered as CAS HI 278.		

CAS IR 349: History of International Relations, 1900 to 45
	Meets with CAS HI 332. The causes and consequences of the First World War; the search for postwar   reconstruction and stability during the twenties; economic collapse, revolutionary nationalism, and fascism   during the 1930s; the Second World War and the advent of the bipolar world.		

CAS IR 350: History of International Relations since 1945
	Meets with CAS HI 334. The causes and consequences of the Soviet-American Cold War from its origins in  Europe to its extension to Asia, Africa, and Latin America. The rise of the multipolar international system,  the emergence of the nonaligned blocs, and inter-and intra-alliance conflicts. 		

CAS IR 351: Africa in International Politics
	Meets with CAS PO 377. Introduction to the international relations of post-colonial Africa. Core themes   include the politics of post-independence international alignments, the external causes and effects of   authoritarian rule, and Africa's role in the global political economy.		

CAS IR 352: International Human Rights: Applying Human Rights in Africa
	Meets with CAS PO 378. Studies the growing international influence on politics of human rights principles,  documents, and organizations, drawing especially on African cases such as Congo, Zimbabwe, and Sudan.  Topics include universality vs. cultural relativism, individual vs. group rights, and issues in human rights  enforcement. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was  previously numbered CAS IR 580.		

CAS IR 360: Making Sense of the World: The Conceptual Foundations of International Relations
	(Meets with CAS PO 383.) Introduction to various analytical approaches for understanding the dynamics of  global interaction. Explores the variety of "worlds" made visible through the lens of theory. Fosters critical  thinking about how conceptual tools shape our understanding of the world and attempted solutions to global problems. 		

CAS IR 362: European Politics
	Meets with CAS PO 341. Comparative study of politics in member states of the European Union, with  emphasis on  political development, institutions, major issues in contemporary politics, and the impact  of  European integration. Selective references to original and new member states of the EU. 		

CAS IR 363: Soviet Politics 1917-91
	Meets with CAS PO 370. Analysis of the structure of major political institutions - government bureaucracy,  Communist party, and others - and policy-society relations during the seventy-four years of the USSR's  existence. Prime focus is institutional rather than historical, and deals with the Soviet politics "game" as it  was played.		

CAS IR 364: Politics of Post-Communist Russia
	(Meets with CAS PO 371.) Analysis of the emergent political forces, institutions, and alliances in the post- Soviet Russian Federation, against the background of the unresolved economic, ethnic, and social  problems that are the USSR's legacy to the "new Russia." Prospects for stabilization are assessed in the  context of the multiple crises facing Russia today. 		

CAS IR 365: Rise of China
	(Meets with CAS PO 352.) China's political, economic, and strategic development since the late nineteenth  century, with emphasis on the period since 1949. Examines three questions: In what ways is China rising?  How did it happen? What are the impacts of China's rise on the U.S. and the global system?		

CAS IR 367: Introduction to Latin American Politics and International Relations
	(Meets with CAS PO 360.) Introduction to the patterns and complexities of Latin American politics and foreign policies. Focuses on the distinctive Latin American political experience and alternative explanation for it, including colonization, the international economy, and human and material resource capacity and utilization.		

CAS IR 368: Contemporary East Asian Economics
           			Meets with CAS EC 368. An introduction to the economic history and institutions of Japan, Korea, Taiwan,  and China. Topics include structural change, trade, labor markets, corporate organization, financial  systems, and macroeconomic and industrial policy.		

CAS IR 369: Southeast Asia in World Politics
           			Meets with CAS PO 354. Examines Southeast Asia as an important emerging political, economic, and security region in world politics. Background materials, including the region's history, cultural diversity,   and geo-strategic position, are given weight in the course. 		

CAS IR 370: China: From Revolution to Reform
	(Meets with CAS PO 351.) Introduction to modern Chinese politics including the development of the  Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and the political development of the PRC since its founding in 1949. Focus  is on the party's official policy and its changing relationships with the people of China.		

CAS IR 372: International Relations of South Asia
	Meets with CAS PO 355. Introduction to South Asia and regional conflict and cooperation. Focus on India,  Pakistan, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Sri Lanka inter-state relations; great power interventions; power   distributions; norms; political, military, and economic conflict and cooperation.		

CAS IR 373: Global Governance and International Organization
	Meets with CAS PO 384. Provides an overview of major theoretical perspectives on the creation and  function of international organizations, comparative case studies of selected organizations, and an  examination of present and future roles of international organizations in selected issue areas.		

CAS IR 375: Introduction to Russian and Post-Soviet Relations
	(Meets with CAS PO 372.) Decisive factors in the foreign relations of Russia and the other former Soviet republics, including historical continuity and change, survival and change of ideology, domestic politics, economic and geographical factors, military and external political considerations. The future of arms control, nuclear weapons, the economy, and relations among the former republics are also examined.  		

CAS IR 376: American Foreign Policy Since 1945
	(Meets with CAS HI 288.) America's tradition and heritage in foreign policy. American foreign policy during  the Cold War. Conflicting approaches to the formulation of American foreign policy in the current  international environment. Domestic and institutional actors in policy formulation: Congress, media,  Presidency, CIA, military.		

CAS IR 378: Intelligence in a Democratic Society
	The intelligence process and its role in democratic societies; the organization and functions of the U.S. intelligence community; techniques of intelligence collection, analysis, counterintelligence and covert action; assessment of problems and attempted solutions in the United States and other democracies. 		

CAS IR 380: American Foreign Policy: Practice and Process
	How U.S. foreign policy is made. After a historical introduction, focus on the external.bureaucratic, societal, and leadership forces that combine to shape broad policy lines and particular initiatives that produce feedback influencing the future.		

CAS IR 381: U.S.-Pakistan Relations
	Examines the history and current state of U.S.-Pakistan relations. Considers the political and strategic  complexities of the bilateral alliance as well as Pakistan's key role in the international relations of South  Asia, Central Asia, and the Muslim world.		

CAS IR 382: Understanding the Middle East
	Introduces the contemporary Middle East, including the Arab world, Iran, Israel, and Turkey; examines the systems of government; the role of external powers; the origins of the state system; the sources and objectives of opposition forces; the prospects for political reform, including democratization; and the prospects for future cooperation or conflict. 		

CAS IR 383: Understanding Modern North Africa
	Meets with CAS PO 376. Considers political, cultural, economic, and social developments in the modern  states of Morocco, Tunisia, Algeria, and Libya as they struggle to gain independence from colonial  domination and to consolidate viable, secure, and legitimate states and prosperous national communities.		

CAS IR 390: International Political Economy
           			Meets with CAS PO 329. Emphasizes the dynamic interaction between politics and economics to  understand and explain historical and contemporary issues in international political economy, including  international monetary, trade, investment, financial, and environmental relations. Considers emerging  challenges and structures in the international political economy.		

CAS IR 394: Power, Leadership, and Governance in Africa and the Caribbean
	(Meets with CAS AA 395 and HI 352.) Haitian Revolution; British Caribbean, leadership, governance, and power in Africa during the period of legitimate trade; visionaries, dictators, and nationalist politics in the Caribbean; chiefs, western elites, and nationalism in colonial Africa; road to governance in post-colonial Caribbean and Africa.		

CAS IR 395: North-South Relations
	(Meets with CAS PO 328.) Employs a multidisciplinary approach to analyze the relations between the industrialized nations of the "North" and the developing nations of the "South." Addresses historical and current issues in North-South relations, including trade, investment, migration, regional economic integration, and the environment. 		

CAS IR 410: Latin America Today: An Interdisciplinary Approach
           			Required for Latin American Interdisciplinary Studies Program majors and encouraged for minors. Topic changes annually.  		

CAS IR 411: Conflict and Conflict Resolution in Latin America
           			Meets with CAS PO 566. Examines a range of historical and contemporary conflicts and wars in Latin  America, both internal and regional, examining their causes and consequences, and the most important  factors that explain how they were resolved or why they persist. 		

CAS IR 425: Seminar: Women and Social Change in the Developing World
	(Meets with CAS SO 420.) Studies women in nonindustrial countries of Asia, Africa, and Latin America, stressing empirical research, theory, and methodology. Comparisons between regions and with industrial countries. Focus on sex segregation, female labor force participation, migration, fertility, family roles, and women and political power.		

CAS IR 430: Africa and Globalization: Opportunities and Obstacles
	Surveys political and economic trends and developments in sub-Saharan Africa from independence to the present, reviews current policy recommendations for Africa's integration into the global community, and compares Western and African policy recommendations for African development.		

CAS IR 436: The Great War and the Fragile Peace
	Exploration of the military, political, social, economic, and cultural consequences of the  First World War and the peace conference of 1919. Focuses on technological  innovations, the expanded role of the state, and the long-range impact of the Versailles  settlement. Also offered as CAS HI 436.		

CAS IR 441: Immigration and Development in Asia
	(Meets with CAS PO 458.) Transnational immigration and economic development in Asia, focusing on  China, India, and South Korea. Cases examined include the rise of manufacturing prowess in China, India's  software industry, and Korea's corporate competitiveness in the world.		

CAS IR 447: Seminar: Global Sociology
           			(Meets with CAS SO 447.) Examines different sociological perspectives on global social dynamics and  processes.		

CAS IR 452: Topics in European Politics and Culture
           			Meets with CAS PO 539. Explores European politics through the lens of culture, using materials from    literature, film, and the social sciences, including live sessions with European writers/artists. 		

CAS IR 465: The United States and the Cold War
	Examination of American Cold War foreign policy from its origins at the end of World War  II through its conduct--Marshall Plan, Detente, Cold War II--to the collapse of the Berlin  Wall and the Soviet Union. Reading seminar. Also offered as CAS HI 465.		

CAS IR 500: Topics in International Relations
	Examines various aspects of International Relations. Topics vary from semester to semester. Five topics    are offered Fall 2014. Students may take any number of sections for credit. Section A1: Principles of   International Negotiation. Focuses on the process of international negotiations using simulations,   exercises and games. Special emphasis on negotiation analysis, dynamics, strategy and tactics in the   international setting and in both bilateral and multilateral contexts. Issues of power, culture and   implementation also discussed. Section B1: Comparative Immigration and Racial Politics. Examines   immigration policies and domestic racial hierarchies across world regions and regime-types.   Investigates the role of immigration and racial hierarchy in economic development, state formation,   nationalism and electoral politics. Case studies include the US, Brazil, Britain, France, the UAE and Japan.   Section C1: Rise of BRICS & the Global Economy. Why have some developing countries grown richer and   others poorer? What does the rise of countries like China mean for the economic fortunes of high-  income countries? Addresses these questions through developmental successes and disasters   throughout the world. Section D1: Cyber Conflict & internet Freedom. (Meets with CAS CS 591 E1.)  Examines the problems confronting the world in addressing network and computer insecurity while  upholding privacy and civil liberties. While the U.S. has championed the "freedom-to-connect" as a  human right, it has also established a new military command for cyberspace. Section E1: Nuclear  Strategy. From the sling shot to the submarine, new weapons have given those deploying them critical  military advantage. But the destructive power and proliferation of nuclear weapons has challenged  mankind to seek ways of controlling them before it is too late.		

CAS IR 501: Conflict and Cooperation in Asia
           			Meets with CAS PO 554. Investigates patterns of conflict and cooperation in South and East Asia   surrounding issues ranging from water resources and health to borders and war. Analyzes how  such issues  contribute to instability in the region, as well as methods of cooperation.		

CAS IR 502: Latin American Political Parties
	Meets with CAS PO 561. Parties and party systems of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and Venezuela. Historical origins and labor incorporation. Populist, working-class, and hegemonic  parties. Market reform and party system transformation or collapse. Ethnic parties, clientelism, rise of a  new Left.		

CAS IR 503: The U.S. in the Middle East
	Meets with CAS PO 503. Examines the historical development and present status of the United  States'  association with the Middle East: American commercial, economic, political, military, and  humanitarian  interests in the area and their interaction.		

CAS IR 505: Arms Control and Proliferation of Weapons
	Arms control and disarmament in modern diplomacy. International agreements. Global control and  dangers of proliferation of nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons. Impact of terrorism. Small arms and  conflict. New ideas in global arms control.		

CAS IR 506: India and the World: The Foreign Policy of a Rising Power
           			Today, India is a nuclear power with a huge and growing economy. This, along with the rise of China and 9/11, has catapulted India into the international limelight. This course examines India's rise, focusing on its foreign policy and international role. 		

CAS IR 507: Islam and Politics
	Investigates the origins and practices of prominent Islamists and grassroots Muslim political movements.  Emphasis is on the coevolution of states and religious movements, the emergence of religious democrats,  the dynamics of transnational mobilization, and recognizing politics in unusual places.		

CAS IR 508: Islamic Political Movements and U.S. Policy
	Studies the origin and impact of various revivalist Islamic political movements and their intersection with U.S. foreign policy. Examines their ideologies, their views of the West, and their contribution to the rise of terrorism.		

CAS IR 509: Islam in Middle East Politics
	Meets with CAS PO 556. Analysis of Islam in the classical and popular forms; examination of the  role of the Muslim religion in the international politics of the modern Middle East, especially Iran,  Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Lebanon, Syria, Iraq, and Libya; their interrelationships and their  attitudes toward the West.		

CAS IR 511: The Middle East Today
	A critical survey of the rise and development of modern nations, states, and economies in the Middle East and North Africa since 1900. Provides context and perspective essential for understanding contemporary issues (e.g., peace process, gender relations, religion's roles, democracy).		

CAS IR 513: Bureaucracy and Governance: A Comparative Inquiry
           			(Meets with CAS PO 525.) Bureaucracy is not only credited with underpinning economic development but  also blamed for corruption and inefficiency. Exploring both theory and comparative development, this  course looks at some of the most basic and important issues informing our understanding of governance.		

CAS IR 514: Empire and Power: British Foreign Policy, 1782-Present
	Meets with CAS HI 533. Examines the evolution of British foreign policy over time as well as the nature of Great Power rivalry. Key  themes include formulation of national diplomatic strategies, policy coordination, diplomatic vs. military  considerations, alliance politics, and policy over-stretch.		

CAS IR 516: Intelligence and Homeland Security
	Aspects of homeland security, including information and intelligence sharing, the role of first responders, the structure and functioning of the system, and defensive and operational aspects. No prior knowledge of intelligence or security issues required.		

CAS IR 517: Seminar in Russian and East European Politics
	Meets with CAS PO 543. Treatment of political and security issues in Eastern Europe and European parts of  former USSR in the crisis, transition, and contemporary periods; particular country and issue foci vary year  to year.		

CAS IR 518: Gender and War
	(Meets with CAS PO 583 and WS 345.) Examines gender constructions in world politics. Topics include gender biases in international relations theories, female and males roles in war, and rape as an instrument of warfare. Also assesses roles of women as leaders, actors, and objects of foreign policy. 		

CAS IR 520: The State and Public Purpose in Asia
	Meets with CAS PO 550. Explores how noncommunist Asian governments have attempted to  advance public purpose, and how organizational factors in countries' governments affect their  ability to do so. These questions are addressed in a comparative framework, considering theory  and cases. 		

CAS IR 521: Congress and National Security
	Examines the role and influence of Congress on the intelligence agencies of the US, Congress's oversight  of intelligence collection, counterintelligence, covert action and surveillance in relation to the executive  powers. Explores the influence of espionage on national security policy.		

CAS IR 523: Global Justice
	Meets with CAS PO 526. Charts the course of human development over history and inquires why the quality   of life varies so dramatically in the world today. Geographic, economic, cultural, and political factors are explored.		

CAS IR 524: The Cold War in Latin America
	Meets with CAS HI 524. Analyzes the Cold War as experienced in Latin America. Examines government  policies, social movements,  economic conditions, and power struggles across Latin America. Compares  episodes of direct and indirect  intervention by the United States as well as Latin American responses.		

CAS IR 527: Political Economy of China
	Meets with CAS PO 548. How did China implement economic reform? What were the progresses  and  limitations? How is China's political-economic development influencing the global system?  Discussions are  conducted in a comparative perspective. Countries of reference include Japan and  India.		

CAS IR 529: Cuba in Transition
	Analysis of the prospects for peaceful transition in Cuba and the pressures for greater openness and democratization today. Discussion of the factors that facilitated Castro's Revolution and of Cuba's continuing impact on the policies of the U.S. and other countries.		

CAS IR 531: Intercultural Communication
	Examines communicative problems that arise in contact between people from different cultural backgrounds in everyday life, social service encounters, and business transactions. Uses interdisciplinary approaches to study how verbal and nonverbal presentation, ethnic, gender, and cultural differences affect communication.		

CAS IR 534: Government and Politics of Contemporary Africa
	Meets with CAS PO 571. Analysis of independent black Africa; factors of continuity and change in modern  Africa, problems of political order, ambiguities of independence. Case studies of individual countries  selected for additional emphasis on specific issues and problems of developing countries. 		

CAS IR 535: Diplomacy and Statecraft
	Examines the mechanisms and process of diplomacy in historical context, to assess approaches to the implementation of foreign policy, analyze the success and failure of these approaches in different circumstances, and consider wider issues in the application of statecraft.		

CAS IR 538: France, Europe, and the World: The History of French Foreign Relations in Modern  Times
           			(Meets with CAS HI 538.) An advanced research colloquium for history and international  relations undergraduate concentrators and graduate students that explores the evolution  of France's position in Europe and the world from the beginning of the First World War to  the present.		

CAS IR 542: The Reemergence of Russia
	Disintegration of the old Soviet system and signs of a reemerging Russia; careers of Gorbachev and Yeltsin  and their attack on the foundations of Stalinism; Moscow's role in the 1989 revolutions; the August 1991  coup d'état. The legacy of communism in the present medical and ecological crises; current political  developments.		

CAS IR 543: The Changing Face of Eastern Europe
	Domestic and foreign policies of East European states, their relations with the former Soviet Union and with each other. Emphasis is on the period 1989-92, but recent events are presented with the historical contexts. Analysis of the formation and subsequent implosion of the Soviet sphere in Europe. The collapse of communism in Poland, Germany, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Romania, and Bulgaria and its impact on the Soviet crisis, the Western alliance, and international relations. 		

CAS IR 546: Power and Legitimacy: Ideology as a Political Tool
	Using original texts from Plato to Havel, political theories and ideologies are studied as instruments of power. Analysis of the relationship between ideas, political elites, institutions, decision-making processes, and legitimacy. Emphasis is on the newly emerged post-totalitarian states.		

CAS IR 548: United Nations Peacekeeping
	Provides an understanding of the problems confronting United Nations-led efforts to  prevent armed conflict before it starts, contain and end such conflicts once they start, and  create conditions whereby an enduring peace can be maintained.		

CAS IR 550: European Integration
	Meets with CAS PO 535. Assesses the meaning of "European Union" in its domestic, foreign policy, and economic dimensions. To understand the opportunities and limits of cooperation and conflict, relevant issue areas of European Community policy are discussed from a functionalist and realist perspective. 		

CAS IR 551: Social Europe: Identity, Citizenship, and the Welfare State
           			Meets with CAS PO 536. The past, present and future of "social Europe." Impact of European  economic and  political integration on national identities, cultures, politics, and citizenship; EU  policies affecting these  social constructions; and changes over time in the welfare state.		

CAS IR 552: Nordic Europe
	Meets with CAS PO 544. A brief historical overview of the region from the Viking Age to the emergence of   the modern states is followed by study of the Nordic countries with respect to the European Union, security   arrangements, and assistance to the developing world. 		

CAS IR 553: Classics of International Relations
	Close reading of one or more of the following, with applications of their teachings to historic and  contemporary problems: Thucydides, The Peloponnesian War; Xenophon, Anabasis and the Education of  Cyrus; Tacitus, The Annals; Sun Tsu, The Art of War; Kau-tilya, The Arthasastra; Persia's Shah Nameh;  Machiavelli, The Prince and The Discourses; Winston Churchill, The Life of Marlborough; Clausewitz, On  War; and Charles de Gaulle, France and Her Army and The Edge of the Sword. 		

CAS IR 556: Current Intelligence Issues
	Examines U.S. intelligence needs, with an emphasis on preparing for international developments in advance. Addresses issues of transnational terrorism and proliferation in additional to traditional concerns such as rogue states, counterintelligence, organized crime, regional rivals, and rising powers.  		

CAS IR 559: Reckoning with the Past: Reparations and Justice in Comparative Perspective
	Meets with CAS AA 559 and PO 585. The debate about reparations for slavery and Jim Crow  segregation in  the United States examined critically as conversation about, and movement for,  retrospective justice.  Includes discussion of war crimes tribunals and truth commissions. 		

CAS IR 561: Religion and International Relations
           			(Meets with CAS PO 589 and CAS RN 561.)  Explores the role of religion in contemporary international  relations in the context of questions about the common core of modernity. Reviews scholarly and policy  literature, and case studies, in order to elucidate religion's intellectual and operational diversity in  international relations.		

CAS IR 563: Public Religion and Politics Across Cultures
           			The contested role of religion in modern politics and its implications for civil life. Begins with the West and includes Islam in the Middle East and SE Asia, Evangelism in Latin America and Africa, Hindu nationalism, and Buddhism in China. 		

CAS IR 566: Democracy in Latin America and Its Challenges
	(Meets with CAS PO 580.) Provides an overview of democracy's achievements and challenges in Latin America. Draws comparisons between stable and unstable democracies in the region, and analyzes the reasons for, and implications of, these differences.		

CAS IR 568: U.S.-Latin American Relations
	Meets with CAS PO 565. The international context within which Latin American countries operate, with   primary emphasis on U.S. policy toward the region. Includes historical overview, the policy-making process   itself, and case studies of specific policy issues. 		

CAS IR 569: Politics and Society in North Africa and the Middle East
	Meets with CAS PO 570. An investigation of contemporary North Africa and the Middle East, with emphasis  on current socioeconomic and political trends and tensions. 		

CAS IR 573: Introduction to Public International Law
	The role of international law in efforts to solve current problems of world order. Emphasis on environmental protection and the regulation of ocean space and resources.  The role of law in conflict and cooperation, and the quest for international security.  		

CAS IR 577: Foreign Policy of the People's Republic of China
	Meets with CAS PO 576. Explores China's perception of its role in the world, its evolution from a regional to  a world power, and its security and economic relationships within the international system. Relationships  with the superpowers, Third World, and world economy, focusing on technology and capital transfers.		

CAS IR 579: Japan in International Politics
	Meets with CAS PO 552. International and domestic influences on Japan's international behavior in the past  as a predictor of Japan's future role in international politics. Covers Japan's role in the Cold War, post-war  Asia, and the management of the global economy. Examines viability of post-Cold War U.S.-Japan relationship. 		

CAS IR 581: The Evolution of Strategic Intelligence
           			Examines the uses of strategic intelligence by modern world leaders in shaping policy and the effects of intelligence on world events. Various uses of intelligence--collecting information analysis, counterintelligence, and secret operations--are explored with emphasis on the period from the Congress of Vienna to the end of the Cold War. 		

CAS IR 582: Taiwan: Politics and Transformation
	(Meets with CAS PO 553.) Examines Taiwan's history, economic development, ethnic identity, democratization, and its controversial position in international politics as a key to understanding questions of political economy, democratic transition, and East Asian security.		

CAS IR 585: Problems and Issues in Post-Mao China
	Meets with CAS PO 549. An in-depth examination of politics in post-Mao China, this course  focuses on several critical issues, uses various conceptual frameworks to try to understand why  the reform process broke down, and examines prospects for the future. 		

CAS IR 586: Islam in South Asian Politics
           			Examines the relations among state, politics, and Islam in South Asia, with particular focus on the unsolved conflicts over Kashmir and Afghanistan. 		

CAS IR 587: Political Economy of the Middle East
	Considers the state of the Middle Eastern political economy and focuses on the failure of the rentier state and the difficulty of political and economic liberalization. Themes are petroleum, the uncertain course of political pluralism, and political Islam.  		

CAS IR 589: North Atlantic/European Security Issues
	Meets with CAS PO 582. Examination of the post Cold War security environment in the North  Atlantic and  greater European context.  Exploration of threats to security, mechanisms in place  and emerging (NATO, CSCE, CFE, WEU), and challenges posed by changes since fall 1989.     		

CAS IR 590: Political Economy of Latin America
	(Meets with CAS PO 562.) Historical and contemporary issues in Latin American political economy. Uses  case studies and cross-regional comparisons to assess competing explanations. Analyzes the current  political and economic situation facing Latin America in its quest for economic growth and development.		

CAS IR 592: Economic Development and International Institutions
           			Examines the role of international institutions in economic development. Analyzes how development- related international institutions makes rules and affect national policy choices. Applies those lessons to  concrete policy challenges, including possibilities for institutional reform.		

CAS IR 594: Global Environmental Negotiation and Policy
	(Meets with CAS GE 594.) Key concepts, actors, concerns, and issues related to the process of negotiating global environmental policies. Overviews of the international system and environmental problems; an international negotiation simulation; case studies of global agreements on ozone depletion, climate change, desertification, and biodiversity, among others. 		

CAS IR 596: Globalization and Contemporary Capitalism in Advanced Industrialized Nations
	Meets with CAS PO 529. How has globalization affected national sovereignty and control? Competing   hypotheses are examined with specific reference to the internationalization of trade and the financial   markets, and its impact on the three postwar models of capitalism. 		

CAS IR 597: Development and Environment in Latin America
           			(Meets with CAS GE 597.) Provides an empirically based understanding of the social and environmental aspects of economic development in Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC) for purposes of analyzing the numerous trade and development policies that nations in LAC are currently considering.		

CAS IR 598: International Business Intelligence and Security Practices
	Introduction to practices of international business intelligence and industrial security, including legal and ethical issues, and investment and market analysis for strategic planning. Lectures are supplemented by a team exercise on dealing with risk in the overseas environment.  		

CAS IR 599: Science, Politics, and Climate Change
	Applies a science and technology studies perspective to climate change science and  policy. Examines the relationships between scientific and political systems at global,  national, and local levels. Also offered as CAS GG 599. 		

CAS LA 111: Hausa 1
	First semester four-skill Hausa course leading to proficiency in oral expression, listening comprehension, reading, writing and cultural understanding. Introduction to reading and writing Hausa in Ajami, an Arabic-based script.		

CAS LA 112: Hausa 2
           			Second-semester four-skills Hausa course leading to proficiency in oral expression, listening  comprehension, reading, writing, and cultural understanding. This course is a continuation of the first semester's work, expanding students' ability to communicate in everyday contexts, and to read and write using both Latin and Ajami scripts.		

CAS LA 211: Hausa 3
           			Orally oriented approach supplemented by reading and writing. Culturally oriented text involves students  in dialogues discussing aspects of Hausa culture and traditions.		

CAS LA 212: Hausa 4
           			Continuation of CAS LA 211. This fourth-semester four-skill Hausa course develops competence and  confidence in the use of Hausa in reading, writing, speaking and listening in culturally acceptable ways.  Students learn to communicate at an intermediate high level of proficiency. 		

CAS LA 311: Hausa 5
           			In this fifth-semester course, students study and discuss various contemporary issues in Hausa society and   culture, including traditional and contemporary literature written in both Latin and Ajami scripts.   Instructional materials include internet resources and Hausa cinema. 		

CAS LA 312: Hausa 6
           			In this sixth semester course, students continue to study and discuss various issues in Hausa society and culture, including traditional contemporary Hausa literature (folk tales, stories, proverbs, etc.) written in both Latin  and Ajami scripts.		

CAS LA 411: Hausa 7
CAS LA 412: Hausa 8
	A continuation of CAS LA 411. This course reinforces students' advanced-high level proficiency in Hausa. It  continues to emphasize the development of the four language skills (listening, speaking, reading, and  writing) for extended formal and informal discourse in both Latin and Ajami scripts.		

CAS LC 111: First-Semester Chinese
	Essentials of structure, oral practice, introduction to the writing system.		

CAS LC 112: Second-Semester Chinese
           			Essentials of structure, oral practice, introduction to the writing system.		

CAS LC 116: Chinese Reading and Writing 1
	Intensive course covering first-year Chinese in one semester for students who speak Mandarin, Cantonese, or another dialect fluently but possess limited or no reading and writing skills. Listening and speaking skills are also developed; aspects of students' Chinese heritage are explored.		

CAS LC 211: Third-Semester Chinese
           			Review of structure and grammar, practice in conversation and writing, introduction to reading.		

CAS LC 212: Fourth-Semester Chinese
           			Review of structure and grammar, practice in conversation and writing, introduction to reading. Satisfactory completion of CAS LC 212 fulfills the CAS language requirement. 		

CAS LC 213: Conversational Chinese
           			Systematic practice in oral Chinese as it is used in real-world situations today. Conversational strategies,  vocabulary, role-plays, contemporary media.		

CAS LC 216: Chinese Reading and Writing 2
           			Intensive course covering second-year Chinese in one semester for students who speak Mandarin,  Cantonese, or another dialect fluently. Training in listening and speaking, but emphasis is on reading and  writing; aspects of students' Chinese heritage are also explored. Satisfactory completion of CAS LC 216 fulfills  the CAS language requirement.		

CAS LC 250: Masterpieces of Classical Chinese Literature (in English translation)
	Panoramic overview of three thousand years of Chinese literature from its beginnings to the threshold of   modernity. Discusses masterpieces of one of the world's oldest continuous traditions in their cultural   context and in the context of literatures around the world. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS LC 251: Masterpieces of Modern Chinese Literature (in English translation)
	Modern Chinese literature tells stories of trauma, accommodation, and resistance. It offers private and public records of tumultuous transitions. This course focuses on great works of transformative importance.  Authors include Lu Xun, Wang Meng, and Jin Yong. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS LC 351:  Masterpieces of Modern Chinese Literature, 1910--Present. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS LC 260: Gateway to Asian Cultures
	Panoramic introduction to the cultures of East and South Asia in comparative perspective (China, Japan,  Korea, Vietnam, India). Examines shared foundations, transformative inflection points, sites, peoples, and  ideologies over the past two millennia through primary texts and media. Also offered as CAS CAS LJ 260,  CAS LK 260, CAS LN 260, and CAS XL 260.		

CAS LC 280: Chinese Classics in TodayÂs World (in English translation)
	Discusses canonical texts, such as the "Five Confucian Classics" and "Four Books," which for millennia have  defined Chinese culture, and reflects on their appeal, significance, and current comeback in Chinese pop culture and politics. LC 280 is a variable topics course and may be repeated for credit if the topic changes.		

CAS LC 283: Chinese Civilization (in English translation)
	An interdisciplinary introduction to Chinese culture, including social life, thought, literature, and fine arts. Emphasis placed on the major cultural and social developments from prehistory to the nineteenth century that have a particular relevance to understanding modern China.		

CAS LC 285: Topics in Chinese Literature (in English translation)
	Topic for Fall 2013: Popular Culture and Modern China. Exploration of "popular culture" as a modern, transnational phenomenon through study of literature, film, music, theater, animation, and internet in  Chinese communities worldwide. Examines theory and practice of popular culture and connects Chinese  modernity to global circulations of popular media. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS LC 286: Topics in Chinese Culture (in English translation)
	Topics focus on particular aspects of Chinese culture such as food, costume, education, religion,     philosophy, and film in order to examine Chinese culture from its beginnings to the present. Topic for     Spring 2013: Food Culture. A study of food in Chinese culture including artistic and literary   representations, history of agriculture, food preservation and preparation, medicinal uses, restaurant   culture, and food as a commodity.		

CAS LC 287: Screening Modern China (in English translation)
	Major Chinese films interpreted in light of modern Chinese history and culture. Focus on questions of national and cultural identity in films from the 1980s to the present day by directors from Mainland China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong. In English. 		

CAS LC 311: Third Year Modern Chinese
           			Readings in modern Chinese. Readings and discussion in Chinese of selected nonliterary and literary materials, including newspaper articles, short stories, and essays. Regular compositions required. 		

CAS LC 312: Third Year Modern Chinese
           			Readings and discussion in modern Chinese of selected nonliterary and literary materials, including newspaper articles, short stories, and essays. Regular compositions required. 		

CAS LC 313: Chinese through Theater and Acting
           			Emphasizes both oral and textual communication through reading, writing, discussing and performing live  theater in Chinese.  Explores cultural aspects of Chinese-speaking worlds and the expression of  ideational/emotional/social meanings in theatrical settings that simulate real life.		

CAS LC 314: Classical Chinese I for Students of East Asia
CAS LC 315: Classical Chinese
           			Basic grammatical components of classical Chinese with emphasis on word and phrase construction,  particles, and sentence structure. Original texts from ancient mythology, philosophy, literature, geography,  medicine, science, and technology. Course conducted in Chinese.		

CAS LC 316: Topics in Classical Chinese
           			Reading and discussion of Classical Chinese literature for students with basic knowledge of Classical  Chinese. Sample topics include Worlds of Chinese Philosophy, Fate and Fortune in China's Great Historians,  Three Millennia of Chinese Poetry, Classical Love and Romance. (Course conducted in Chinese or English,  depending on topic.)		

CAS LC 401: Sr Indep Work
			

CAS LC 402: Sr Indep Work
			

CAS LC 411: Fourth Year Modern Chinese 1
           			Advanced-level readings in modern Chinese. Discussion in Chinese of literary materials in various forms  and styles. Special attention to works written between 1919 and 1949. Regular compositions and lab work  (tapes and films).		

CAS LC 412: Fourth Year Modern Chinese 2
           			Advanced-level readings in modern Chinese. Discussion in Chinese of literary materials in various forms  and styles. Special attention to works written between 1919 and 1949. Regular compositions required.		

CAS LC 420: Topics in Chinese through Media
           			Introduction to Chinese-language media from various countries and critical analysis of differences in   reporting on current events. Topics may include economic, political, legal, socio-cultural issues, and   various media. Conducted in Chinese. May be repeated for credit as topic changes. Topic for Fall 2014:   Business News in Multiple Chinese Media.		

CAS LC 440: Mass Media and Social Change in Modern China
           			The Chinese press, radio, and television from their late nineteenth-century beginnings to the present as major forces shaping public opinion and mass culture. Focus on the cultural, economic, and political implications of the media, including entertainment and advertising.		

CAS LC 486: Workshop on Translating and Interpreting Chinese
           			Enhances students' knowledge of Chinese by developing practical skills in translating and interpreting.   Students practice translating a variety of text types, using various dictionaries and internet sources, and  interpreting in different situations.		

CAS LC 491: Directed Study: Chinese
           			Application form available in department.		

CAS LC 492: Directed Study: Chinese
           			Application form available in department.		

CAS LD 111: Amharic 1
	First semester four-skill Amharic course leading to proficiency in oral expression, listening  comprehension, reading, cultural understanding, and writing using the Amharic alphabet.		

CAS LD 112: Amharic 2
           			This second semester four-skill Amharic course leads toward proficiency in oral expression, listening   comprehension, reading, cultural understanding, and writing using the Amharic alphabet.		

CAS LD 115: Zulu 1
	First semester four-skill Zulu course leading to proficiency in oral expression, listening comprehension,  reading, writing and cultural understanding.		

CAS LD 116: Zulu 2
           			Second-semester four-skills Zulu course leading to proficiency in oral expression, listening  comprehension, reading, writing and cultural understanding. This course is a continuation of the first  semester's work, expanding students' ability to communicate in everyday contexts.		

CAS LD 119: Igbo 1
	First semester four-skill Igbo course leading to proficiency in oral expression, listening comprehension,  reading, writing, and cultural understanding.		

CAS LD 120: Igbo 2
           			Second-semester four-skills Igbo course leading to proficiency in oral expression, listening  comprehension, reading, writing, and cultural understanding. This course builds on the first semester,  expanding students' ability to communicate in everyday contexts. 		

CAS LD 211: Amharic 3
CAS LD 216: Zulu 4
           			This four-skills African language course in fourth-semester isiZulu develops communicative competence  and confidence in the use of isiZulu in reading, writing, speaking and listening in culturally acceptable  ways. Students learn to communicate at an intermediate high level of proficiency.		

CAS LD 219: Igbo 3
           			This third-semester four-skill Igbo course develops competence and confidence in the use of Igbo in  reading, writing, speaking, and listening in culturally acceptable ways. Students learn to communicate at an  intermediate mid-level proficiency.		

CAS LD 220: Igbo 4
           			This fourth semester four-skills Igbo course develops communicative competence and confidence in the  use of Igbo in reading, writing, speaking, and listening in culturally acceptable ways. Students learn to  communicate at an intermediate high-level of proficiency.		

CAS LD 311: Amharic 5
           			Designed to help students develop proficiency in the language from the intermediate to advanced level.   Study and discussion of various issues in Amharic society, culture and history, and traditional and   contemporary literature.		

CAS LD 312: Amharic 6
           			Designed to help students continue to develop proficiency in the language at the advanced level. Study and  discussion of various issues in Amharic society, culture and history, and traditional and contemporary   literature. 		

CAS LD 315: Zulu 5
           			This fifth-semester course is designed to take students' proficiency in isiZulu from the intermediate to the advanced level; it includes study and discussion of various issues in Zulu society, culture and history, and traditional and  contemporary literature.		

CAS LD 316: Zulu 6
           			This sixth-semester course builds on Zulu 5, helping students to develop their proficiency in the language at the advanced level. Continuing study of various language and cultural issues pertaining to Zulu society.		

CAS LD 491: Directed Study in African Languages and Linguistics
           			Study of the linguistic structure of an African language, or the typology of African language families, or linguistic problems related to African languages. 		

CAS LD 492: Directed Study in African Languages and Linguistics
           			Study of the linguistic structure of an African language, or the typology of African language families, or linguistic problems related to African languages. 		

CAS LE 111: Swahili 1
	Introduction to spoken Kiswahili. Emphasis on communicative skills. Exposure to full system of noun  classes and introduction to tense-aspect system. Cultural and historical readings, films, and other visual  aids included. Lab required. Four hours weekly. 		

CAS LE 112: Swahili 2
           			This four-skill African langauge course in second-semester Kiswahili leads toward proficiency in oral  expression, listening comprehension, reading, cultural understanding, and writing.		

CAS LE 211: Swahili 3
           			Intermediate study of Kiswahili. Continued emphasis on oral communication skills and the development of  reading and writing skills. Exposure to all compound tenses. Readings from traditional Kiswahili literature,  oral and written. Lab required. 		

CAS LE 212: Swahili 4
           			This four-skill African language course in fourth-semester Kiswahili emphasizes oral communication skills  and the development of reading and writing skills. It exposes students to all compound tenses of the  language, and develops students' reading skills in traditional Kiswahili literature.		

CAS LE 311: Swahili 5
           			Discussions and compositions relating to East African themes and based in readings from traditional  literature, political treatises from Kenya and Tanzania, and a modern novel. Advanced grammatical  analysis.  		

CAS LE 312: Swahili 6
           			This four-skill African language course in sixth-semester Kiswahili focuses on discussions and  compositions dealing with East African themes and based on readings from traditional literature, political  treatises from Kenya and Tanzania, and Kiswahili modern novels. Students also study advanced grammar.		

CAS LE 411: Swahili 7
           			This course is designed to take students to advanced-high level proficiency in Kiswahili. It emphasizes high-level reading comprehension and leads to the development of communication skills for extended formal and informal discourse.		

CAS LE 412: Swahili 8
CAS LF 112: Second-Semester French
           			Continues CAS LF 111. A multimedia approach which develops speaking, reading, writing, and listening skills, together with the grammar and vocabulary needed for more complex communicative tasks. 		

CAS LF 113: Intensive Beginning French
           			Intensive French course for beginners or according to placement test results. Introduction to grammar, vocabulary, and structure of French, emphasizing the basic communication skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing. (If CAS LF 111, 112, 123, 131, 132, or a more advanced college-level course has been completed, this course cannot be taken for credit.)		

CAS LF 211: Third-Semester French
           			Authentic literary selections by writers from diverse Francophone countries, cultural readings, and  discussion of short-subject films by francophone filmmakers, accompanied by advanced study of grammar  and emphasis on communicative skills.		

CAS LF 212: Fourth-Semester French
           			Refines the four skills through in-depth study of a modern novel. Creative oral and written exercises based on the novel and study of advanced grammar. Viewing of contemporary French films. Fulfills CAS language requirement, prepares for further study (LF 303).  		

CAS LF 303: French Composition and Conversation I
           			Discussion of literary texts by classic and contemporary writers and of films on pertinent cultural themes. Development of spoken and written French and aural comprehension. Review of advanced grammar. 		

CAS LF 304: Composition and Conversation II
           			Develops increased fluency and a more nuanced use of spoken and written French through discussion of contemporary fiction and film. Reading of articles from the press to explore current and historical issues in French society. 		

CAS LF 305: Advanced Written Expression
           			Intensive study of the art of writing. Development of individual style through explications de texte, free composition, and written reports. Reading and discussion of manuscripts; translation and transcription; individual projects and conferences.		

CAS LF 306: Advanced Oral Expression
           			Advanced training in rapid and idiomatic French speech. Oral reports. Role playing; vocabulary building; targeted work on pronunciation, intonation, and aural comprehension. Lab required.		

CAS LF 341: Topics in Contemporary French Culture
           			Through current articles and headlines, films, songs and French comedians, this class explores the  meaning and preservation of French "Culture"; looks into areas of social debate from a French perspective;  and considers the identity crisis generated by globalization.		

CAS LF 348: France Past to Postmodern: French Civilization Through Film
           			Examines France's classic cultural symbols and evolution from monarchy into the revolutionary nation that introduced notions of Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity. Survey of events in today's post-modern and post-colonial state. Uses film, video, articles to explore contemporary culture and politics. 		

CAS LF 350: Introduction to Analysis of French Texts
           			Development of techniques for reading and interpreting French literary  texts. Special attention to the study of lyric poetry, drama, and short narrative. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS LF 351: Introduction to the French Novel
           			Close readings in the French novel from its origins to the nouveau roman. Attention to narration, themes, symbols, and schools. Investigation of the roman d'analyse, Romantic prose, realist fiction, and other types of narrative. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS LF 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LF 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LF 452: The Age of Versailles
           			Seventeenth-century developments in classical theater, the novel, poetry, and fairy tales in relation to the  vision of an all-powerful monarchy. Creative responses to a culture of constraint, as seen in works of  Corneille, Racine, Molière, La Fayette, La Fontaine, Aulnoy. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS LF  562.		

CAS LF 453: The French Enlightenment
           			Topic for Fall 2014: Theaters of Deception. Paradoxes of the theater. Topics include: the spectator's deception and theatrical illusion; the actor's complicity and craft in generating emotions; conflicts between Church, State, and theater. Features student theater performances. Authors studied: Corneille, Molière, Rotrou, Marivaux, and Diderot.		

CAS LF 491: Directed Study: French
           			Application Form available in department.		

CAS LF 492: Directed Study: French
           			Application Form available in department.		

CAS LF 500: French Phonetics
           			Students work to improve their own pronunciation through study of the distribution and articulation of  French sounds, liaison, "mute e," and intonation, and through oral practice in the language laboratory.  Written exercises and phonetic transcription reinforce theoretical points. Conducted in French.		

CAS LF 502: The Structure of French: Syntax
           			Investigation of the syntactic and logical relations in French, with occasional comparison to Quebecois, and  to English and other languages. Students will discover structural properties through frequent problem sets.  Conducted in French. 		

CAS LF 503: The Structure of French: Phonology
           			The sound system of standard French, with comparison to Québecois. Questions about the mental  representation of linguistic information, processes of word formation, and language variation and change  are discussed. Frequent problem sets allow students to discover linguistic regularities. Conducted in  French.		

CAS LF 551: Modern French Theatre
           			Origins and definitions of major theatrical forms, especially tragedy. Close analysis of both theoretical and theatrical texts. Application of dramatic theory (Artaud, Grotowski) to plays by Claudel, Cocteau, Giraudoux, Anouilh, Genet, Beckett, and others. 		

CAS LF 556: French Cinema and Literature
           			Analysis of classic French films by Vigo, Renoir, Carné, Malle, Bresson, Godard, and Truffaut as well as later  twentieth and early twenty-first century works. Weekly screenings, reading of literary models and film  theory.		

CAS LF 562: The Age of Versailles
           			Seventeenth-century developments in classical theater, the novel, poetry, and fairy tales in relation to the  vision of an all-powerful monarchy. Creative responses to a culture of constraint, as seen in works of  Corneille, Racine, Molière, La Fayette, La Fontaine, Aulnoy. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS LF 452.		

CAS LF 563: French Tragedy of the Seventeenth Century
           			Development of French tragedy from the early part of the century to the end of the classical period, as illustrated in the plays of Corneille and Racine.  Discussion of major critical studies by Bénichou, Doubrovsky, Goldmann, Mauron, and Barthes.  		

CAS LF 565: Medieval Courtly Literature
           			Just what is "courtly literature"? Using le roi Arthur, Guenièvre, Lancelot, and Merlin as guides, this course follows the intertwined evolution of courtly romance and Arthur's very particular court romances. Also analyses issues of authorship and authority, social critique, and the emergence of "fiction".		

CAS LF 569: Topics in Francophone Writing
           			Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

CAS LF 570: Topics in Twentieth Century/Twenty-First Century French Literature
           			Topic for Fall 2012: French Lives. A consideration of three generations of French intellectual history  through the lives and major autobiographical texts of three masters of French prose. Readings include  André Malraux's Antimémoires, Claude Lévi-Strauss' Tristes Tropiques, and Régis Debray's Loués soient  nos seigneurs.		

CAS LF 571: Topics in Nineteenth-Century French Literature
           			Topic for Fall 2014: Women, Money, and Power. Intersections of these three sites of desire in nineteenth  century French narrative. Topics include the family, prostitution, gender identity, counter-discursive   practices, and cultural contexts. Texts by Balzac, Flaubert, Zola, and Rachilde. Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

CAS LF 575: Later French Renaissance
           			Emphasizes the impact of the discovery of the New World, the Wars of Religion, and early print culture on  French society and letters. Special attention given to Montaigne's Essays. Additional authors studied may  include Du Bellay, Rabelais, de Léry, or Marguerite de Navarre.		

CAS LF 586: Reading Narrative Film (in English translation)
	Explores how European filmmakers have approached filmmaking more as a theoretical activity than as  entertainment. Students learn the tools of cinematic analysis and apply them to a series of seminal  (predominantly French) films, each suggesting a particular theory of film itself. Class conducted in English;  films with subtitles.		

CAS LG 111: First-Semester German
	For beginners or according to placement test results. Introduction to grammar, vocabulary, structure of German, emphasizing the four basic skills: speaking, writing, listening, and reading. (If CAS LG 112 or a more advanced college-level course has been completed, this course may not be taken for credit.)  		

CAS LG 112: Second-Semester German
CAS LG 283: The Faust Tradition
           			Comparative study of the Faust theme, 1500 to present: Marlowe, Goethe, Mann, Gertrude Stein, Jan Svankmajer, others. Transmission and adaptation of literary themes within and between national traditions. Emphasis on close reading and research, use of theory and criticism. Meets with CAS XL 351. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS LG 303: Composition and Conversation I
           			Increased sophistication in speaking German through simulation and role playing as well as in writing German through regular compositions  and journal entries. Grammar review; practice in pronunciation,  comprehension, conversation, vocabulary, and written expression.  Discussion of contemporary topics, conducted in German. 		

CAS LG 304: Composition and Conversation II
           			Increased sophistication in speaking German through simulation and role playing as well as in writing German through regular compositions and journal entries. Grammar review; practice in pronunciation, comprehension, conversation, vocabulary, and written expression. Discussion of contemporary topics, conducted in German. 		

CAS LG 315: Introduction to German Linguistics
           			Introduction to major subfields of German linguistics: phonetics/ phonology, morphology, syntax,  semantics, historical linguistics, regional variation, and sociolinguistic aspects such as gender and English  influence. Includes familiarization with Middle High German. Course also aims to improve students'  German proficiency and pronunciation. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS LG 325: Modern German History and Culture through Film
           			Presentation of cultural differences between East and West Germany leading to reunification and beyond. Screenings of works by Fassbinder, Herzog, Schlöndorff, Sanders-Brahms, Dörrie, Wenders, and Tykwer. Texts on film art in different historical contexts. Discussions and essays in German.		

CAS LG 345: German for Business and Economics
           			Introduction to the language of business and to the German economy within the context of European integration and globalization. Includes online research, group projects, skits, and panel discussions.		

CAS LG 350: Introduction to German Literature
           			Masterpieces of German literature representing major eras and genres from the eighteenth century to the present. Practical introduction to methods of close reading and literary interpretation; class discussion. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS LG 387: Weimar Cinema (taught in English)
	German silent and early sound films from Caligari to Hitler, viewed in the aesthetic context of contemporary and recent film theory and criticism and in the broader cultural context of the interwar  Weimar Republic (1918--1933), with international points of comparison. Weekly screenings. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS LG 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LG 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LG 403: Fourth-Year German: Vocabulary and Idiom
           			Advanced study of German idiomatic usage and subtleties of grammar in cultural context, aiming to increase students' range and accuracy of expression in speech and writing. Texts from contemporary media, popular music, literature, film. Frequent short essays.		

CAS LG 450: Origins of German Culture
           			Survey of major developments in the cultural history of German-speaking countries, from the Middle Ages  through the Enlightenment.  Literature, expository texts, music, art and architecture, and their influence on  contemporary cultural debates.  Course conducted in German.		

CAS LG 453: Romanticism
           			Poetry and prose of major authors (Tieck, Novalis, Schlegel, Brentano, Günderode,  Eichendorff, Hoffmann), their connection to music and art and to German Idealism.  Emergence of the fairy-tale. Women and the literary salons.		

CAS LG 456: Twentieth-Century Culture: Since 1945
	Survey of postwar and contemporary German-language literature in its cultural-historical context. The Nazi past and the Holocaust; the economic rise of West Germany and accompanying disillusionment; East Germany's socialist ideal and reality; German reunification; women's voices; migrant literature. 		

CAS LG 491: Directed Study: German
           			Application form available in department.		

CAS LG 492: Directed Study: German
           			Application form available in department.		

CAS LH 111: Fundamentals of Modern Hebrew 1
	For students with no previous knowledge of Hebrew or minimal background. Introduction to the language of contemporary Israel. Fundamentals of grammar, extensive practice in speaking, reading, and writing about topics such as getting acquainted, learning and living situations. Curriculum incorporates technology and original Israeli materials.		

CAS LH 212: Intermediate Modern Hebrew 2
           			Expands vocabulary, grammar, language structures and communicative skills to enable students to achieve  solid proficiency. Develops students' ability to respond orally and in writing to literary texts and audio- visual material such as Israeli films, television clips, and news.		

CAS LH 250: Masterpieces of Modern Hebrew Literature (in English translation)
	Narrative prose and poetry of major writers from the revival of Hebrew culture in nineteenth-century Eastern Europe to present-day Israel, including works of Bialik, Agnon, Amichai, and Yehoshua. Special focus on the struggle for modern identity in the domains of family, nation, and religion. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS LH 283: Israeli Culture through Film (in English translation)
	Examines changes in Israeli society over the last fifty years through the medium of film. Traces cultural responses to the Arab/Israeli conflict, the Holocaust, and Sephardi-Ashkenazi relations. 		

CAS LH 284: The Culture and Civilization of Modern Israel (in English translation)
	An interdisciplinary introduction to Israeli history, politics, culture, and identity. Meets with CAS HI 392. 		

CAS LH 311: Advanced Modern Hebrew: Voices in Israeli Society
           			Advanced language practice and introduction to diverse groups in Israeli society - Orthodox and secular, immigrants and old-timers, Mizrachi and Ashkenazi Jews. Develops Hebrew proficiency in all language  modalities while acquainting students with contemporary Israeli culture through texts, songs, films.		

CAS LH 312: Sixth-Semester Hebrew
           			Advanced mastery of the full range of Hebrew language usages and styles through short stories, drama,  poetry, news media, films, and other activities. Theme for Spring 2015: The development of Israeli and  Middle Eastern cuisine.		

CAS LH 330: Israeli Popular Music
           			Advanced-intermediate Hebrew language and culture course for those who have completed at least four   semesters' college Hebrew or equivalent. Introduction to Israeli cultural history through music. Students  expand vocabulary and further develop writing, reading, listening, and conversational skills in Hebrew.		

CAS LH 340: Israeli Culture though Media
           			An advanced Hebrew language course, which uses as its "textbook" Israeli newspapers, television, and  online news media. Students follow current events in Israel (politics, business, sports, etc.); compare  coverage in diverse outlets; speak and write knowledgeably about Israeli society.		

CAS LH 491: Directed Study: Hebrew
           			Application form available in department.		

CAS LI 111: First-Semester Italian
	For beginners only, or placement examination results. Grammar, conversation practice, written exercises, and compositions. Conducted in Italian. Lab required. Four hours weekly. (If CAS LI 131 or a more advanced college-level course has been completed, this course cannot be taken for credit.)  		

CAS LI 112: Second-Semester Italian
           			Continues the CAS LI 111 basic text: grammar, conversation, compositions. Conducted in Italian. Lab required. Four hours weekly.		

CAS LI 131: Beginning Italian I
           			Specially designed for College of Fine Arts students. Grammar; special attention to phonetics; reading and writing.		

CAS LI 132: Beginning Italian II
           			Specially designed for students in the College of Fine Arts. Continuation of CAS LI 131. Grammar; special attention to phonetics; reading and writing.  		

CAS LI 211: Third-Semester Italian
           			Intended for students with a satisfactory background in elementary Italian, who require some review of  basic structures, verbs, and related essentials. Review, emphasis on composition skills, and conversation.  Reading and discussion of short stories, poetry, and plays. Conducted in Italian.		

CAS LI 212: Fourth-Semester Italian
           			For students who wish to build active use of Italian in speaking, writing, and reading. Continuation of CAS LI 211: review, development of reading skills through analysis of contemporary texts, compositions, conversation. Lab required. Satisfactory completion of CAS LI 212 fulfills the CAS language requirement.  		

CAS LI 283: Twentieth-Century Culture and the Italian Film (in English translation)
	A portrait of modern Italian life as seen through cinema and screenplays. Films by Fellini, Bertolucci, Bellocchio (based on works by Pirandello, Calvino, Moravia, Pasolini) illustrate aspects of Italian cultural development in the twentieth century. 		

CAS LI 303: Self-Expression in Italian
           			Building and expansion of vocabulary through development of fluent discussion in Italian on topics of   current interest. Emphasis on idiomatic expressions. Individual oral reports related to Italian culture,   history, cinema, and literature. Reading of a novel. Not open to native speakers of Italian. 		

CAS LI 304: Advanced Self-Expression
CAS LI 350: Italian Literature I: Medieval
           			Development of techniques for reading and interpreting Italian literary texts. Historical and critical study of  the first two centuries of Italian literature, 1200-1400: the early poets, Guido Cavalcanti, and Dante.  Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS LI 351: Italian Literature II: Renaissance and Baroque
           			Techniques for analysis of Italian texts from the fourteenth through the seventeenth centuries. Francesco   Petrarca, Giovanni Boccaccio, a play of Nicolò Machiavelli's, Ludovico Ariosto, female love-poets of the   sixteenth century, the Baroque poetry of Giambattista Marino. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS LI 352: Italian Literature III: Modern Period
           			Development of techniques for reading and interpreting Italian literary texts. Historical and critical study of Italian literature from the eighteenth to the twentieth century: Alfieri, Romanticism and Leopardi, Verga, Capuana and verismo, theatre of Pirandello. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.   		

CAS LI 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LI 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LI 450: The Novel in Nineteenth- and Twentieth-Century Italy
           			An examination of the modern novel in Italy: Foscolo, Capuana, D'Annunzio, Bassani, and Calvino. The development of the novel in Italy is discussed along with related questions of narrative perspective, cultural ideologies, and historical context. 		

CAS LI 453: Autobiography and the Confessional Novel
           			Discussion of Italian autobiographical and confessional novels, concentrating on theoretical questions of self-representation and the differences between confession and autobiography. Authors read: Capuana, D'Annunzio, Svevo, and Aleramo.  		

CAS LI 459: Primo Levi Within Holocaust Literature
           			A study of Primo Levi's writings and scientific, theological, and philosophical approaches to the Holocaust. Other theorists (Arendt, Wiesel, Müller-Hill) and other survivors' testimonies (Delbo, Borowski, Fink) are read in conjunction with Levi's works. Also offered as CAS RN 459 and CAS XL 459.		

CAS LI 473: The Masters of Italian Cinema
           			The creative work of Fellini, Visconti, Antonioni, Bertolucci, and De Sica as expressions of a specific cultural perspective on Italian life of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Additional focus on several novels and screen plays that have influenced the work of the directors.		

CAS LI 491: Directed Study: Italian
           			Application form available in department.		

CAS LI 492: Directed Study: Italian
           			Application form available in department.		

CAS LI 553: Petrarch and the Tradition of Love Poetry
           			Petrarch's Canzoniere and earlier philosophical love poems in Italian. Study of later English, French, Spanish poems in the Petrarchan style. Bilingual texts available.  		

CAS LI 555: Dante's Hell
           			A close reading of one text, Dante Alighieri's Inferno, with attention to its medieval contexts: philosophical,  theological and historical. Analysis of the poetic means by which Dante represents both human evil and  human hope. Bi-lingual text. Lectures and discussion in English. Also offered as CAS RN 555 and CAS XL  383.		

CAS LI 556: Dante: The Divine Comedy II: Purgatorio and Paradiso
           			Focus on the literary, philosophical, and theological ideas Dante uses to represent his experience of  himself and of human nature. Bi-lingual texts. Lectures and discussions in English. Also offered as CAS RN  556 and CAS XL 385.		

CAS LJ 111: First-Semester Japanese
	Introduction to spoken and written Japanese and to fundamentals of Japanese grammar with oral drills and written exercises.		

CAS LJ 112: Second-Semester Japanese
           			Introduction to spoken and written Japanese and to fundamentals of Japanese grammar with oral drills and written exercises.		

CAS LJ 211: Third-Semester Japanese
CAS LJ 260: Gateway to Asian Cultures
	Panoramic introduction to the cultures of East and South Asia in comparative perspective (China, Japan,  Korea, Vietnam, India). Examines shared foundations, transformative inflection points, sites, peoples, and  ideologies over the past two millennia through primary texts and media. Also offered as CAS CAS LC 260,  CAS LK 260, CAS LN 260, and CAS XL 260.		

CAS LJ 282: The Samurai in Myth and History
	Explores how samurai, Japan's (in)famous warrior class, defined themselves, and how others have portrayed them in literature, art, plays, film, and animation from ancient times to the present. Investigates why samurai ideals have become the most widely recognized Japanese "tradition." Also offered as CAS HI 370.		

CAS LJ 283: Modern Japanese Culture in Cinema (in English translation)
	Major modern Japanese films are interpreted in the light of Japanese culture. Film scripts  and the important literary sources are read in English; films are shown with subtitles.		

CAS LJ 303: Third-Year Modern Japanese I
           			Reading modern texts. Development of writing and speaking skills. Regular compositions required. Readings from newspapers and journals on contemporary social, political, economic, and cultural topics. Second semester (LJ 304): selections from fiction and nonfiction. 		

CAS LJ 304: Third-Year Modern Japanese II
           			Reading modern texts. Development of writing and speaking skills. Regular compositions required. Selections from fiction and nonfiction. 		

CAS LJ 316: Classical Japanese
           			 Introduction to Classical Japanese, Japan's written language from the seventh until the twentieth century. Systematic study of grammar and lexicon enriched by original readings from major works of Japanese literature such as Man'yōshū, Pillow Book, Genji, and Heike monogatari, Hōjōki.  		

CAS LJ 320: Conversational Japanese
           			Advanced training to increase fluency in spoken Japanese with an emphasis on different levels of   politeness in speech and cultural awareness. Role playing; vocabulary and expression building; and aural   comprehension. Concurrent enrollment in a four-skills language course is encouraged.		

CAS LJ 350: Readings in Modern Japanese Fiction
           			Readings in modern fiction and essays, from Akutagawa to Murakami, to deepen knowledge of Japanese language and encounter Japanese literature in its contemporary context. Readings and discussions in Japanese. 		

CAS LJ 385: Intensive Kanji
           			Supplements vocabulary and idiom for students beyond third-semester Japanese. Students learn to read and write the 1006 Kyôiku Kanji and recognize an additional 939 Jôyô Kanji in everyday Japanese. Concurrent enrollment in a four-skills language course encouraged.		

CAS LJ 386: Japanese Translation/Interpretation Workshop
           			To enhance students' knowledge of Japanese by developing practical skills of translating and interpreting. Students practice translating many types of texts, using various dictionaries and internet sources, and interpreting in different situations.		

CAS LJ 401: Sr Indep Work
			

CAS LJ 402: Sr Indep Work
			

CAS LJ 441: Japanese Press
           			Development of skills in formal Japanese through reading of periodicals. Emphasis on formats, styles, and idioms used in journalism. Vocabulary building. Television news programs and documentaries viewed for improvment of aural comprehension. Assignments geared to individual needs and interests.		

CAS LJ 445: Readings in Japanese Civilization
           			Uses the Japanese language to learn about history, society, art, politics, and current issues from Japanese perspectives. Critical engagement with topics in Japanese culture through multiple forms of communication, including reading, writing, discussion, and video.  Conducted in Japanese.		

CAS LJ 451: Topics in Japanese Literature
	Two topic are offered Fall 2014. Students may take one or both for credit. Section A1: Melodrama.   Melodrama as genre of fiction and film with focus on Japanese texts,  viewed from a comparative   perspective. Reading and discussion in English. Also offered as CAS XL 470 C1. Section B1: Gender in   East Asian Film. What roles have cinematic representations played in constructing or challenging gender   norms in twentieth century East Asia? How have images of sexuality evolved across linguistic and   cultural boundaries in East Asia? Films from China, Japan, and Korea. Also offered as  CAS LC 470, CAS  LK 470 A1, and CAS XL 382 A1.		

CAS LJ 480: Japanese Women Writers (in English translation)
           			Close reading of texts by women of the Heian Period (ninth to twelfth centuries). Social, political, psychological concerns of women masked in a "language of longing." Legacy for modern Japanese women writers. Original material where possible. Lectures and texts in English. 		

CAS LJ 481: Topics in Japanese Literature (in English translation)
           			Topic for Spring 2010: Rise of the Modern and Encounter with the West: Japanese Literature 1864-1945. Fiction from the Meiji period through World War II, with attention to the effect on literature of Japan's rapid modernization and increased contact with the West. Works by Ogai, Soseki, Higuchi, and Tanizaki. Lectures and readings in English, originals available.		

CAS LJ 485: Intensive Kanji 2
           			Intended for avid learners who already know at least 1000 Kanji. Students become skilled at Jôyô Kanji, learn idiomatic compounds, and are trained in reading advanced materials and writing their own Kanji-rich essays.		

CAS LJ 510: The Structure of the Japanese Language
           			Introduction to linguistic analysis of the Japanese language (phonology, word structure, grammar, genetic relationships); social and cultural issues (orthography, honorifics). Assignments geared to individual interests and needs. Conducted in English. 		

CAS LK 111: First-Semester Korean
           			Elementary grammar, conversation, reading, writing. 		

CAS LK 112: Second-Semester Korean
           			Continues the text from LK 111; grammar, conversation, reading, writing. 		

CAS LK 116: First Year Korean for Heritage Speakers
	Designed for students who can understand spoken Korean but who have little or no practice in reading or  writing. Comprehensive coverage of first year Korean grammar, reading, writing, and speaking.		

CAS LK 211: Third-Semester Korean
           			Development of communicative skills acquired in the first year. Readings in Korean. Writing exercises involving more complex grammatical patterns.		

CAS LK 212: Fourth-Semester Korean
           			Further review of the structures of Korean. Practice in conversation involving specialized topics. Advanced readings from Korean culture. Frequent compositions. Satisfactory completion of LK 212 fulfills the CAS language requirement.		

CAS LK 216: Second-Year Korean for Heritage Speakers
           			Continues from CAS LK 116. Designed for students who are fluent in spoken Korean but have only basic  practice in reading or writing. Comprehensive coverage of second-year Korean grammar, reading, writing,  and speaking. Successful completion of CAS LK 216 fulfills the CAS foreign language requirement.		

CAS LK 250: Introduction to Korean Literature (in English translation)
	What is Korean literature? How has it evolved through interaction with Chinese, Japanese, European and   American literatures and cultures? What roles have regional and global changes played in shaping Korean   imaginative writing? No prerequisites; readings and discussion in English. Carries humanities divisional  credit in CAS.		

CAS LK 260: Gateway to Asian Cultures
	Panoramic introduction to the cultures of East and South Asia in comparative perspective (China, Japan,  Korea, Vietnam, India). Examines shared foundations, transformative inflection points, sites, peoples, and  ideologies over the past two millennia through primary texts and media. Also offered as CAS LC 260, CAS  LJ 260, CAS LN 260, and CAS XL 260.		

CAS LK 311: Fifth-Semester Korean
           			Readings in modern literary writings and journalism.  Essays and discussions on issues in politics, society, and culture.  Vocabulary building, advanced grammar, and enhancement of speaking ability.  		

CAS LK 312: Sixth-Semester Korean
           			Continues CAS LK 311.  Readings in modern literary writings and journalism.  Essays and discussions on issues in politics, society, and culture.  Vocabulary building, advanced grammar, and enhancement of speaking ability. 		

CAS LK 383: Modern Korean Culture through Cinema (in English translation)
	Introduction to modern Korean culture and society through film from the Korean war (1950--1953) to the   present. Discussion and essays on modern Korean life as seen in Korean films. Critical analysis of changes   in Korean society. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that   was previously numbered CAS LK 283. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS LK 440: Korean Conversation and Composition through Media
           			Intensive practice of both oral and written forms of Korean. Survey of important cultural, social, political, and economic issues in Korea as portrayed in films, television, and periodicals. Development of effective written and spoken communication.		

CAS LK 441: Advanced Korean: Issues in Korean Society
           			Reading, discussion, and writing about current and historical events in Korea, Korean literature in historical context, recent political and economic reports, and cultural analysis of Korean society. Course is conducted in Korean.		

CAS LK 470: Topics in Korean Literature and Culture
	Topic and prerequisites vary. Topic for Fall 2014: Gender in East Asian Film. What roles have cinematic   representations played in constructing or challenging gender norms in twentieth century East Asia? How   have images of sexuality evolved across linguistic and cultural boundaries in East Asia? Films from China,   Japan, and Korea. Also offered as CAS LC 470, CAS LJ 451 B1, and CAS XL 382 A1.		

CAS LK 491: Directed Study: Korean
           			Application form available in the MLCL Department.		

CAS LK 492: Directed Study: Korean
           			Application form available in the MLCL Department.		

CAS LM 111: First-Semester isiXhosa
	Fundamentals of isiXhosa, a widely spoken African language. Focuses on developing basic communicative skills (reading, listening, speaking, and writing). Also explores aspects of the culture of the amaXhosa.  		

CAS LM 212: Fourth-Semester isiXhosa
           			This fourth semester four-skills IsiXhosa course develops communicative competence and confidence in the use of IsiXhosa in speaking, reading, writing, and listening in culturally acceptable ways. Students learn to communicate at an intermediate high level of proficiency.		

CAS LN 111: First-Semester Hindi-Urdu
           			Elementary grammar, conversation, reading, writing. 		

CAS LN 112: Second-Semester Hindi-Urdu
           			Continues the text from CAS LN 111; grammar, conversation, reading, writing.		

CAS LN 211: Third-Semester Hindi-Urdu
           			Development of communicative skills acquired in the first year. Readings in Indian civilization. Practice in conversational Hindi-Urdu. Writings exercises involving more complex grammatical patterns.		

CAS LN 212: Fourth-Semester Hindi-Urdu
           			Further review of the structures of Hindi-Urdu. Practice in conversation involving specialized topics. Advanced readings in Hindi. Frequent compositions. Satisfactory completion of LN 212 fulfills the CAS language requirement.		

CAS LN 225: Tradition and Modernity in Indian Film and Literature (in English translation)
	A survey of modern Indian films and literature pertaining to the way traditional values are negotiated in a  modern world. The subjects of the novels and films studied range from love, family, and duty to death and  moksha.		

CAS LN 260: Gateway to Asian Cultures
	Panoramic introduction to the cultures of East and South Asia in comparative perspective (China, Japan,  Korea, Vietnam, India). Examines shared foundations, transformative inflection points, sites, peoples, and  ideologies over the past two millennia through primary texts and media. Also offered as CAS LC 260, CAS  LJ 260, CAS LK 260, and CAS XL 260.		

CAS LN 303: Modern Hindi Literature and Culture
           			Advanced Hindi, concentrating on all four communicative skills, diverse registers, and idioms. Exposure to  literature, media and other cultural materials.		

CAS LN 304: Urdu Language and Literature
           			Introduction to Urdu language and literary culture, concentrating on all four communicative skills, diverse  registers, and idioms. Exposure to literature, media, and other cultural materials.		

CAS LN 491: Ds Hindi-Urdu
			

CAS LN 492: Ds Hindi-Urdu
			

CAS LP 111: First-Semester Portuguese
	Introduction to grammatical structures. Fundamental communications skills of listening, speaking, reading  and writing. Exposure to the culture and civilization of the Portuguese-speaking world through media  broadcast, literature readings, films, music, and videotapes. Lab required. Four hours weekly. 		

CAS LP 112: Second-Semester Portuguese
           			Covers the important grammar points not studied in CAS LP 111.  Further develops the four communicative  skills while expanding students' background knowledge of the history and cultures of the Portuguese- speaking world. Lab required. Four hours weekly.		

CAS LP 123: Intensive Elementary Portuguese
	Intensive elementary Portuguese for those with previous study of Spanish and other interested students.  Equivalent of one year of college Portuguese. Emphasizes the four communicative skills: speaking,  listening, reading, and writing. Introduces grammar and the culture of the Lusophone world through media  broadcast, literature readings, films, music, and videotapes.		

CAS LP 211: Third-Semester Portuguese
           			Promotes cross-cultural understanding of the Luso-African-Brazilian cultures through authentic literary  texts, multimedia, film and music. Completes study of grammatical structures and syntactical patterns.   Emphasizes reading, writing and conversational competency. Conducted in Portuguese. 		

CAS LP 212: Fourth-Semester Portuguese
           			Review of the grammar and syntax of Portuguese. Further develops reading, writing, and conversational  competency while expanding students' knowledge of history and culture. Conducted in Portuguese. Fulfills  the CAS language requirement.		

CAS LP 305: Topics in Portuguese Language and Culture
           			Centers on advanced Portuguese grammar and develops writing and speaking skills beyond the level  reached in CAS LP 212. Provides a basic introduction to the main periods and features of Brazilian history  and culture. Also suitable for heritage speakers.		

CAS LP 310: Introduction to Brazilian Cinema (in English translation)
	An overview of Brazilian cinema in the 60s, 70s and 80s, its discourse on revolution and marginality, as well as its connection to artistic, musical, and literary movements. Focus on the work of avant-garde filmmakers and younger generations. Also includes attention to Cuban cinema. Taught in English.		

CAS LR 111: First-Year Russian I
CAS LR 211: Second-Year Russian I
           			The fundamentals of Russian grammar and syntax. Development of reading and oral skills. 		

CAS LR 212: Second-Year Russian II
           			The fundamentals of Russian grammar and syntax. Development of reading and oral skills. Satisfactory completion of CAS LR 212 fulfills the CAS language requirement.		

CAS LR 250: Classics of Russian Prose (in English translation)
	Prose works that define the Russian literary tradition, including Pushkin's Queen of Spades, Gogol's Overcoat, Turgenev's Fathers and Sons, Dostoyevsky's Notes from the Underground, Tolstoy's Anna Karenina. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.   		

CAS LR 280: Dostoyevsky (in English translation)
	His literary and ideological development. Short novels, diaries, and major novels: Crime and Punishment, The Idiot, The Possessed, Brothers Karamazov. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.    		

CAS LR 281: Tolstoy (in English translation)
	Examination of development of Tolstoy's art; emphasis on formal aspects of his prose. Tolstoy's position in Russian and Western literature. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.   		

CAS LR 282: Russian Prose Classics of the Twentieth Century (in English translation)
	Introduction to the major writers of twentieth-century Russian prose and to the literary traditions that they represent through a close reading of selected texts. Readings will include works by the following authors: Chekhov, Sologub, Belyj, Babel, Olesha, Bulgakov, and Solzhenitsyn. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS LR 285: Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky (in English translation)
	Close reading of Tolstoy's War and Peace and Dostoyevsky's The Brothers Karamazov. Discussion of Russian masters and larger themes: epic tradition from Homer to Tolstoy; continuity of "tragic world view"; the contrasts between the epic mode and the dramatic, and between two opposed views of God and history. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS LR 303: Third-Year Russian: Reading, Grammar Review, and Conversation
           			Reading original unabridged Russian prose and poetry. Intensive work on improvement of fluency and quality of expression; special attention to pronunciation.		

CAS LR 304: Third-Year Russian II: Reading, Grammar Review, and Conversation
           			Reading original unabridged Russian prose and poetry. Intensive work on improvement of fluency and quality of expression; special attention to pronunciation.		

CAS LR 309: Style and Composition for Native Speakers of Russian
           			Intended for native speakers of Russian who require extensive grammar review.  Intensive study of the art of written expression in modern Russian through exercises in syntactic structure, translations from English into Russian and original compositions. Special attention to orthography. Development of individual style.		

CAS LR 350: Introduction to Analysis of Russian Prose Texts
           			Introduction to the great prose style of Russian literature. Pushkin, Gogol, Dostoyevsky, Turgenev, Tolstoy, and Chekhov: techniques of interpretation and close reading of short works. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS LR 354: Russian Theatre
	Introduction to Russian drama in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Emphasis on thematic concerns  and character development. Discussion and readings in English with an additional hour for students with  reading proficiency in Russian. Also offered as CAS LR 554.		

CAS LR 355: Chekhov: The Stories and Plays (in English translation)
	Comprised of two components. First: an in-depth study of Chekhov's short stories and plays in pursuit of  an understanding of their literary, cultural and historical significance. In the second part of the course  students develop and produce a play composed of scenes from Chekhov and present it to the public at the  end of the semester. Taught in English.		

CAS LR 388: Russian and Soviet Film (in English translation)
	History of Russian and Soviet cinema in relation to artistic, cultural, and political developments in the  twentieth century. Films by Eisenstein, Vertov, Pudovkin, as well as the "new" postwar cinema and the  problems confronted by filmmakers in the post-Soviet era. Readings of theoretical and critical works. This  course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS LR 288.		

CAS LR 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LR 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LR 403: Advanced Russian Grammar
           			Subtleties of grammar and usage. Written projects, including English to Russian translations. Contemporary journalistic and literary sources.		

CAS LR 442: Russian Media
           			Social role of the media. Critical evaluation of television programs and especially of documentaries. Effects and responsibilities of radio, television, film, and print media as cultural, social, and economic forces. 		

CAS LR 492: Directed Study: Russian
CAS LS 111: First-Semester Spanish
	For students who have never studied Spanish, or by placement test results. Introduction to grammatical structures. Emphasis on aural comprehension, speaking, and pronunciation. Introduction to Hispanic culture. Lab required.		

CAS LS 112: Second-Semester Spanish
           			Completes study of basic grammatical structures. Emphasis on speaking and aural comprehension. Readings on contemporary Hispanic culture. Writing assignments. Lab required.		

CAS LS 123: First-Year Spanish
	For beginners only. Intensive equivalent of one year of college Spanish.		

CAS LS 211: Third-Semester Spanish
           			Completes study of grammatical structures of Spanish. Use of spoken language in conversation. Reading in Hispanic civilization and of contemporary short stories. Writing exercises involving more complex grammatical and syntactical patterns.  		

CAS LS 212: Fourth-Semester Spanish
           			Review of the structures of Spanish. Intensive practice of spoken language. More advanced readings from Hispanic culture. Frequent compositions. Satisfactory completion of CAS LS 212 fulfills the CAS language requirement. 		

CAS LS 222: Fourth-Semester Spanish for Reading
           			Completes intensive review of grammatical structures. Emphasis on sophisticated sentence structures and  the contemporary idiom. Readings include historical texts, representative examples of journalism, and a  short novel. Viewing and discussion of films. Weekly written translations leading to a final project.  (Students intending to take one of the 300-level Spanish Language courses must take LS 212 and not LS  222.)		

CAS LS 306: Translation
           			Not open to students for whom Spanish is a first language. Students may not take CAS LS 306 more than   once for credit. Advanced study of the Spanish language through the translation of written texts. Analysis   of the theory and practice of translation as a catalyst of cultural transfer. Taught in Spanish. Topic for Fall   2014: Techniques of Literary Translation. Practice in the translation--from and into Spanish--of different   forms of literary prose and poetry. Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

CAS LS 307: Literature and the Arts
           			Not open to students for whom Spanish is a first language. Students may not take CAS LS 307 more   than once for credit. Advanced study of the Spanish language through the analysis of literature in its   relations to the arts: music, painting, dance, performance. Four topics are offered Fall 2014. Topic for   Section A1: Performance in the Theater of Everyday Life. Performing in Spanish to help hone   communication skills while consolidating grammar, building vocabulary, and working on pronunciation   and intonation. Topic for Section B1: 'Alma Boricua.' Study of the Puerto Rican experience through   literature, film, music, and dance, from colonial times to the present. Topic for Section C2: Short Stories   from the Hispanic World. The short story as a vehicle of Hispanic culture. Elements and language of   story-telling. Topic for Section D1: Sailing with Darwin to Patagonia and Beyond. Explores Charles   Darwin's discoveries during his voyage to South America in 1831. Using Darwin's diary to map out his   route, the focus is on original works in Spanish written by naturalists, scientists, as well as authors of   fiction. Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

CAS LS 308: Spanish Film and Media
           			Not open to students for whom Spanish is a first language. Students may not take CAS LS 308 more   than once for credit. Advanced study of the Spanish language through the analysis of the film and media   of the Spanish-speaking world: cinema, the internet, and social media. Topic for Fall 2014: The "Road   Movie." Examines how films from Hispanic countries portray quests for change, how many of these trips   lead to cross-cultural (mis)communications, and the universal and culturally specific nature of certain   common themes. Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

CAS LS 309: Composition for Native Speakers of Spanish
           			(This course is open only to native speakers of Spanish and to other students  whose speech is near-native as a result of their have grown up more or less bilingually and/or lived partly in Spanish-speaking settings.) Emphasis on academic Spanish: grammar, vocabulary, idiomatic expressions, short stories, film, oral presentations. 		

CAS LS 310: Spanish for the Professions
           			Not open to students for whom Spanish is a first language. Students may not take CAS LS 310 more than   once for credit. Advanced study of Spanish as used in the professions in the Spanish-speaking world.   Analysis and discussion of intercultural professional communication, acquisition of specialized vocabulary.   Topic for Fall 2014: The Language of Business. Cultural and linguistic competence in business-oriented   settings. Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

CAS LS 350: Introduction to Analysis of Hispanic Texts
           			Development of techniques for reading and interpreting Hispanic literary texts; reading of lyric poetry,  drama, and fictional narrative. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS LS 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LS 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LS 420: Spanish in the United States
           			An ethnographic survey and sociolinguistic analysis of Spanish as spoken in urban areas of the US. Focuses   on issues of language and dialect content, language change, the fraught notion of 'heritage' speakers, and   code-switching as a sociolinguistic phenomenon. Conducted in Spanish. Also offered as CAS LX 420.		

CAS LS 452: Topics in Latin America Literature and Culture
           			Topic for Fall 2014: Tango and Urban Culture. Discussions of stories told by tango about immigration, sex  trade, and sentimental betrayals, from "Guardia Vieja" to electronic compositions; readings of poets and  fiction writers: Cadícamo, Discepolo, Contursi, Manzi, Arlt. Dance through examples.		

CAS LS 454: Survey of Nineteenth and Twentieth Century Spanish Literature
CAS LS 491: Directed Study: Spanish
           			Application form available in the department.		

CAS LS 492: Directed Study: Spanish
           			Application form available in the department.		

CAS LS 504: History of the Spanish Language
           			The evolution from Latin to Spanish including developments due to external factors such as foreign  invasions, contacts with France, and the conquest of America. Analysis of the historical and cultural contexts in which this evolution occurred. 		

CAS LS 505: Topics in Spanish Linguistics
           			Topics vary.		

CAS LS 507: The Sounds of Spanish
           			Introduction to Spanish phonetics and phonology. Covers articulatory, acoustic, and auditory phonetics,   focusing on techniques for visualizing speech sounds. Examines the phonemic inventory and phonological   organization of Spanish from several perspectives, including generative and articulatory phonology as well   as sociolinguistics. Conducted in Spanish. Also offered as CAS LX 507.		

CAS LS 508: The Structure of Spanish
           			Introduction to Spanish morphology and syntax. Explores the structure of Spanish words, phrases, and   sentences from multiple perspectives with a focus on natural language data. Examines Generative, Usage-  Based, and Lexical-Functional approaches to the analysis of grammatical structure. Conducted in Spanish.  Also offered as CAS LX  508.		

CAS LS 554: Jorge Luis Borges
           			Hoaxes, plagiarism, rumors, gossip turned into fact, characters and plots emerging from sources as diverse as Cervantes, Poe, Kafka, Emerson, and Macedonio are some of the elements of this kaleidoscopic consideration of the poetry and prose of Jorge Luis Borges. Also offered as CAS  XL 470 C1.		

CAS LS 565: The Spanish Picaresque Novel
           			Development of the Spanish picaresque in relation to social and historical context. Special attention to its place in the evolution of the modern novel. Close study of Lazarillo de Tormes, Estebanillo González, works by Alemán, Cervantes, Quevedo, López de Ubeda. 		

CAS LS 570: Don Quixote
           			Close thematic, stylistic, and structural analysis of Cervantes's masterpiece. Attention to its contributions  to the development of the modern novel as well as to its place within the literary context of its day. 		

CAS LS 572: The Spanish American Colonial Experience: Early Texts, New Interpretations
           			Analysis of early texts that contributed to Europe's perception of the American continent and of modern  literary works from Spanish America that re-examine the European view. Authors include Columbus,  Cabeza de Vaca, Balboa, Carpentier, Posse, and Saer.		

CAS LS 575: Topics in Peninsular Literature
           			Topic for Fall 2014: Spanish Poetry through Translation. How poems "mean" across languages. Writing  about translation from Octavio Paz and Ortega y Gasset to Lawrence Venuti and Efraín Kristal. Exercises in  translation, imitation, and annotation; projects; critique of written work. Spanish and English.		

CAS LS 576: Topics in Spanish American Literature
           			Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

CAS LS 579: Topics in Hispanic Cinemas
           			Cinema as a perspective from which to analyze cultural and socio-political developments within the Spanish-speaking world. Topics drawn from the history of specific national cinemas, individual filmmakers or particular "schools," relations between literature and film, and political uses of film.  		

CAS LS 580: Mexico City in Literature and Film
           			This course explores urban experience in Mexico City from the literary, the cinematic and the theoretical  perspective. Focus on literary and filmic discourses about this city during the nineteenth and twentieth  centuries. Authors include Gutierrez Najera, Bunuel, and Ripstein.		

CAS LT 111: First-Semester Turkish
	Introduction to spoken and written Turkish and fundamentals of Turkish grammar, with oral drills and written exercises.		

CAS LT 112: Second-Semester Turkish
           			Completes introduction to modern Turkish grammar, with emphasis on development of aural and written comprehension, as well as writing and speaking abilities.		

CAS LT 211: Third-Semester Turkish
CAS LT 492: Ds Turkish
			

CAS LW 111: First-Semester Wolof
	For beginners. Develops proficiency in oral expression, listening comprehension, reading, writing, and  cultural understanding. Uses the communicative approach to cover the three main varieties of Wolof as spoken in the Senegambian region.		

CAS LW 112: Wolof 2
	This four-skill African language course in second-semester Wolof leads toward proficiency in oral  expression, listening comprehension, reading, cultural understanding, and writing (using both the Latin  alphabet and the Arabic-based script known as Wolofal or Ajami).		

CAS LW 211: Wolof 3
           			This third semester four-skills Wolof course develops communicative competence and confidence in the  use of Wolof in speaking, reading, writing, and listening in culturally appropriate ways. Students learn to  communicate with native speakers at an intermediate mid level of proficiency.		

CAS LW 212: Wolof 4
           			This fourth semester Wolof course develops communicative competence, cultural literacy, and confidence   in the language in reading, writing, speaking and listening. Students learn to communicate at an   intermediate high level of proficiency.		

CAS LW 311: Wolof 5
           			Study and discussion of various contemporary issues in Wolof society and culture, including traditional   and contemporary Wolof literature (folk tales, stories, proverbs, etc.) written in both Latin and Ajami   scripts.		

CAS LW 312: Wolof 6
           			Study and discussion of various contemporary issues in Wolof society and culture, including traditional and contemporary Wolof literature (folk tales, stories, proverbs, etc.) written in both Latin and Ajami scripts.		

CAS LW 411: Wolof 7
           			Develops students' proficiency at the advanced-high level in oral expression, listening  comprehension,  reading, and writing in both Ajami and Latin scripts. Students apply their language skills to professional  fields, the humanities, and social sciences.		

CAS LW 412: Wolof 8
           			Continues to develop students' proficiency at the advanced-high level in oral expression, listening  comprehension, reading, and writing in both Ajami and Latin scripts, and enables students to apply their  language skills to professional fields, the humanities, and social sciences.		

CAS LW 491: Directed Study: Wolof
	Directed study in Wolof.		

CAS LW 492: Directed Study: Wolof
	Directed study in Wolof.		

CAS LX 205: Origins of Writing
	This course is about the origin and development of Greek and Roman alphabets, presented against a   panorama of many writing systems used across the globe. It has a considerable linguistic component   supplemented by historical information about various languages and cultures. Carries humanities   divisional credit in CAS. Also offered as CAS CL 205.		

CAS LX 245: Language and Mind
	Foundations of linguistics as a science, in relation to cognitive science, philosophy of language, and psychology, including a critical overview of the research program initiated by Noam Chomsky. Students read and discuss original works, and write short essays. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS LX 250: Introduction to Linguistics
	Properties that languages share and how languages differ with respect to   structure (sound system, word formation, syntax), expression of meaning,   acquisition, variation, and change; cultural and artistic uses of language;   comparison of oral, written, and signed languages. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.    		

CAS LX 320: Language, Race, and Gender
           			Do women talk differently from men? How do race and ethnicity relate to the way people use language?  This course examines these inter-related questions from the perspective of modern sociolinguistic theory,  analyzing a range of languages and communities throughout the world.		

CAS LX 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LX 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LX 406: The Linguistics of Contemporary English
           			Systematic introduction to the linguistic analysis of modern English (phonology, morphology, syntax) from the perspective of generative grammar. Other topics include: English and its West Germanic relatives, non-standard varieties and the development of standard English, varieties of World Englishes.		

CAS LX 420: Spanish in the United States
CAS LX 492: Directed Study: Linguistics
           			Application form available in department.		

CAS LX 500: Topics in Linguistics
           			Three sections, each covering a different topic, are offered 2014/15. Students may register for more   than one section of CAS LX 500 (with different topics) for credit. Topic for Fall 2014: Variation in English Dialects. Exploration of how dialects of English differ from each other, focusing on grammatical   variation in the US, with occasional forays into British dialects. Students come to appreciate how linguists investigate grammatical diversity scientifically, revealing the complex structure of non-standard dialects. Topics for Spring 2015: Section A1. Melodies of English (and some other languages). (The prerequisite for this section is CAS LX 510 or consent of the instructor.) Exploration and analysis of   English melodic patterns. Students transcribe and even gather prosodic data (intonation, grouping, and   prominence), using computer software and the ToBI framework. Comparisons of the English intonational system to systems of other languages of the world. Section B1. "Having" and "Being" across Languages. Languages differ startlingly in how they express the apparently basic concepts of "possession" and "essence". Students explore this variety and its implications, addressing fundamental questions about linguistic relativism, language universals, and the relationship between structure and meaning.		

CAS LX 501: Linguistic Field Methods
           			An in-depth investigation of the phonology, morphology, syntax, and discourse/pragmatics of an African or other non-Indo-European language. Weekly sessions with language consultant.		

CAS LX 502: Semantics I
           			Introduction to the study of linguistic meaning, with the goal of improving understanding of the ways in  which native speakers produce and interpret language. Emphasis on the interaction of meaning with other  components of grammar and cognitive systems. Carries humanities divisional studies credit in CAS. 		

CAS LX 503: Semantics II
           			Systematic development of a semantic theory of natural language, using the tools of model-theoretic semantics.  In-depth study of the relation between meaning and grammar, and the relation between meaning and context.		

CAS LX 504: Topics in Pragmatics
           			Covers the main areas of linguistic pragmatics, the study of language use and the relation between meaning and context. Study of pragmatic phenomena such as presuppositions, implicatures, anaphora, and focus, from the perspective of linguistic semantics. 		

CAS LX 507: The Sounds of Spanish
           			Introduction to Spanish phonetics and phonology. Covers articulatory, acoustic, and auditory phonetics,    focusing on techniques for visualizing speech sounds. Examines the phonemic inventory and phonological    organization of Spanish from several perspectives, including generative and articulatory phonology as well    as sociolinguistics. Conducted in Spanish. Also offered as CAS LS 507.		

CAS LX 508: The Structure of Spanish
           			Introduction to Spanish morphology and syntax. Explores the structure of Spanish words, phrases, and   sentences from multiple perspectives with a focus on natural language data. Examines Generative, Usage-  Based, and Lexical-Functional approaches to the analysis of grammatical structure. Conducted in Spanish.  Also offered as CAS LS  508.		

CAS LX 510: Phonetics
           			Introduction to articulatory and acoustic phonetics. Investigation of the production and perception of the   sounds of the world's languages. Development of practical skills, including IPA transcription, description of   sound systems, and basic acoustic analysis. Focus on cross-linguistic typology. Carries humanities  divisional studies credit in CAS. 		

CAS LX 513: Introduction to Phonology
           			Introduction to phonological theory and analysis. Focus on major cross-linguistic patterns in phonological  systems. Topics covered include distinctive feature analysis, phonological rules and constraints,  phonological opacity, tone, syllables and syllable weight, metrical stress theory, and interactions with  morphology and syntax.		

CAS LX 515: Languages in Contact: The High Stakes of Grammatical Border-Crossing
           			Examines the mechanisms and outcomes of language contact by surveying cases around the globe from the past and present. Topics include lexical-borrowing, code-switching, pidgins and creoles, language  death, and the emergence of entirely new language systems.		

CAS LX 521: Morphology
           			Morphology, the study of the internal structure and the shapes of words across languages, straddles the  boundary between syntax and phonology. Introduction to major issues in the study of morphology,  emphasizing links to other components of grammar. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS LX 522: Syntax I
           			Part one of a two-semester sequence. Introduction to the logical structure and organization of language,  and to generative theory. Application of principles of syntactic analysis to students' own and other  languages through data-oriented problems from different language types. Carries humanities divisional   studies credit in CAS. 		

CAS LX 523: Syntax II
           			Part two of a two-semester sequence. Recent developments in syntax, including the principles and  parameters framework of generative grammar (the Minimalist Program, Antisymmetry) and certain other  generative approaches (including Optimality Theory). Introduction to current issues in the field and  proposals from the current theoretical linguistics literature.		

CAS LX 525: Prosody
           			Exploration of the melodic and rhythmic aspects of the languages of the world. Emphasis on theoretical and experimental approaches to cross-linguistic typology. Specific topics include syllables and syllable- weight, rhythm and speech timing; stress and metrics; tone and intonation.		

CAS LX 533: The Structure of Creole Languages
           			Overview of pidginization and Creolization. Evolution, typology, and area characteristics of Creole languages. Role of contact languages and other linguistic substrata. Field and classroom research with Creole language speakers. 		

CAS LY 139: Intensive First-year Arabic for Heritage Learners
           			Intensive first-year Arabic for students already knowing the Arabic alphabet and possessing some colloquial Arabic conversation skills. Reading, writing, speaking, and comprehension. One semester covers all material taught in CAS LY 111 and LY 112. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS LY 111 or LY 112.		

CAS LY 211: Second-Year Modern Arabic I
           			Completes the process of presenting the basic structures of modern formal Arabic, concentrating on weak verb forms, more complicated sentence formation, and more sophisticated expression in speech and writing. Vocabulary expansion and better root-pattern identification skills are also stressed.		

CAS LY 212: Second-Year Modern Arabic II
           			Completes the process of presenting the basic structures of modern formal Arabic, concentrating on weak verb forms, more complicated sentence formation, and more sophisticated expression in speech and writing. Vocabulary expansion and better root-pattern identification skills are also stressed.		

CAS LY 214: Levantine Arabic
           			To enhance oral communicative ability in colloquial Levantine Arabic. Introduces vocabulary, grammatical features, and cultural skills essential for informal communication with speakers of Syrian, Lebanese, Palestinian, and Jordanian Arabic.		

CAS LY 303: Third-Year Modern Arabic I
           			Advanced reading, composition, grammar review, listening skills, and conversation in Modern Standard Arabic as well as major dialects such as the Cairine or the Gulf dialect.  		

CAS LY 304: Third-Year Modern Arabic II
           			Continuing advanced reading, advanced composition; grammar review, listening skills, and conversation in Modern Standard Arabic as well as major dialects such as the Cairine or the Gulf dialect. 		

CAS LY 350: Introduction to Arabic Literature
           			Selection of Arabic poetry, short stories, novels, and drama. Focus on development and refinement of  Arabic reading strategies, literary analysis of short passages, and writing and speaking skills. Readings  and assignments in Arabic and English. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS LY 403: Advanced Arabic 1
           			Advanced-level reading and discussion in Modern Standard Arabic of media reports, scholarly articles, modern literary texts, and excerpts from classical writings. Student compositions and presentations in Arabic on topics related to readings.		

CAS LY 404: Advanced Arabic 2
           			Advanced conversation and composition course in conjunction with the study of famous literary and  cinematographic works of the Arabic-speaking world.		

CAS LY 420: Media Arabic
           			An advanced Arabic language course that builds skills in reading, listening, discussion, presentation, and  composition while familiarizing students with a broad range of Arab online media and their coverage of  current socio-political and cultural issues.		

CAS LY 441: 1001 Nights in the World Literary Imagination
           			What is The Thousand and One Nights? How has this ever-expanding collection appealed to its diverse  audiences? Focus on Nights structure and themes, notable translations and offshoots in western literature  and art, and later appropriations by Arab and Muslim writers. Also offered as CAS EN 590 and CAS XL 441.		

CAS LY 470: Topics in Arabic Literature
	May be taken multiple times for credit as topics change. Readings and assignments in English; readings    also available in Arabic. Topic for Fall 2014:  Russia in the Middle East: Literary Encounters. How have   Russian writers imagined the Muslim world? How have Arab writers imagined Russia and the USSR? What   happened when these fantasies collided during real-life encounters (diplomacy, study abroad, war,  exile)? Knowledge of Arabic or Russian useful but not necessary. Also offered as CAS LR 456 B1 and CAS  XL 470 B1. 		

CAS LY 471: Topics in Arab Culture and Arabic Language
           			May be taken multiple times for credit as topics change. Topic for Spring 2015: Arab Culture and Identity   (in English translation). Explores Arab culture primarily through media and the arts. Develops an   understanding of Arab culture focusing on media, film, the arts, language, and the Arab Spring in the   context of religious, socio-cultural and political identity.		

CAS LY 491: Directed Study: Arabic
           			Application form available in department.		

CAS LY 492: Directed Study: Arabic
           			Application form available in department.		

CAS LY 572: Arabic Translation and Interpreting
		Training in strategies of written translation between Arabic and English, and introduction to the challenges  of oral interpreting. Exercises drawn from various contemporary materials including print and broadcast  media as well as literary texts.		

CAS LZ 311: Advanced Persian 1
           			Advanced Persian, concentrating on all four communicative skills, diverse registers, and idioms. Work with  literature, media, other realms of Persian culture.		

CAS LZ 380: Persian (Farsi) Epic and Romance (in English translation)
	Introduction to classical Persian narrative literature. Topic for Fall 2014: Literature in Iran and Afghanistan.  Readings are premodern and modern texts, as well as film viewings, with the aim of understanding how  the two nations have received a shared literary heritage. What modern cultural concerns are reflected in the  different views of the Persian past? Also offered as CAS XL 470 A1. Carries humanities divisional credit in  CAS.		

CAS LZ 381: Rumi and Persian Sufi Poetry (in English translation)
	Introduction to the Persian Sufi poet Rumi's narrative and lyric writings. Focus on Islamic mysticism, the  innovative aspects of Rumi's poetry, and the problem of profane vs. sacred love. All readings in English  translation. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS. Also offered as CAS RN 348.		

CAS LZ 491: Directed Study: Persian (Farsi)
           			Application form available in department.		

CAS LZ 492: Ds Persian
			

CAS MA 107: Mathematical Reasoning in the Elementary Grades: Number Systems
	Required for undergraduates seeking licensure in elementary education, special education, or deaf studies. Focuses on number systems, operations including mental mathematics, proportionality, number theory, and probability. Non-SED students by signed permission only. Does not satisfy CAS Divisional Studies or Math/Stat major.		

CAS MA 108: Mathematical Reasoning in the Elementary Grades: Algebra, Geometry, and Statistics
           			Required for undergraduates seeking licensure in elementary education, special education, or deaf studies. Focuses on topics in algebra, geometry, measurement, and statistics.  Non-SED students by signed permission only. Does not satisfy CAS Divisional Studies or Math/Stat major.		

CAS MA 109: The Art and Science of Quantitative Reasoning
	Buying music on-line, making phone calls, predicting the weather, or controlling disease outbreaks would be impossible without mathematics, statistics, and computer science.  Focuses on methods of reasoning common to these disciplines, and how they enable the modern world. Also offered as CAS CS 109. Carries MCS divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS MA 113: Elementary Statistics
	MA 113 may not be taken for credit by any student who has completed any MA course numbered 300 or higher. Students may receive credit for not more than one of the following courses: CAS MA 113, MA 115, or MA 213. Basic concepts of estimation and tests of hypotheses, ideas from probability; one-, two-, and multiple-sample problems. Applications in social sciences. Primarily for students in the social sciences who require a one-semester introduction to statistics; others should consider CAS MA 115 or MA 213. Carries MCS divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS MA 115: Statistics I
	MA 115 may not be taken for credit by any student who has completed any MA course numbered 300 or higher. Students may receive credit for not more than one of the following courses: CAS MA 113, MA 115, or MA 213. Numerical and graphical summaries of univariate and bivariate data. Basic probability, random variables, binomial distribution, normal distribution. One-sample statistical inference for normal means and binomial probabilities. Primarily for students in the social sciences with limited mathematics preparation.Carries MCS divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS MA 116: Statistics II
           			MA 116 may not be taken for credit by any student who has completed any MA course numbered 300 or higher. Students may receive credit for not more than one of the following courses: CAS MA 116, MA 214, or MA 614. One- or two-sample inference for normal means and binomial probabilities, analysis of variance, simple linear regression, multiple regression, analysis of categorical data. Introduction to survey design and design of experiments. Primarily for students in the social sciences with limited mathematics preparation. Carries MCS divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS MA 118: College Algebra and Trigonometry
	MA 118 may not be taken for credit by any student who has completed any MA course numbered 121 or higher. Functions and graphs. Linear and quadratic equations. Exponents; logarithms. Right and oblique triangles; trigonometric functions. Optimization. Specifically intended to prepare students with insufficient background in mathematics for the study of calculus. This course may not be used in fulfillment of the divisional studies requirement. Satisfies the mathematics requirement in the College program.		

CAS MA 120: Applied Mathematics for Social and Management Sciences
	MA 120 may not be taken for credit by any student who has completed any MA course numbered 124 or higher. Linear equations, systems of linear equations, matrix algebra, exponential functions and logarithms, elements of differential calculus, optimization, probability. Applications in economics, finance, and management. Satisfies both mathematics requirement and divisional studies requirement. Carries MCS divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS MA 121: Calculus for the Life and Social Sciences I
	Students may receive credit for either CAS MA 121 or 123, but not both. Differentiation and integration of functions of one variable. Same topics as CAS MA 123, but with less emphasis on mathematical generality and more on application. Especially suitable for students concentrating in the biological and social sciences. Carries MCS divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS MA 122: Calculus for the Life and Social Sciences II
           			Students may receive credit for not more than one of the following courses: CAS MA 122, MA 124, MA  127 or MA 129. Continuation of CAS MA 121. Review of univariate calculus, calculus of the elementary  transcendental functions, elementary differential equations, elementary multivariate calculus. Applications  to exponential growth, optimization, equilibrium, and dynamic modeling problems. Carries MCS divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS MA 123: Calculus I
	Students may receive credit for either CAS MA 121 or 123, but not both. Limits; derivatives; differentiation of algebraic functions. Applications to maxima, minima, and convexity of functions. The definite integral; the fundamental theorem of integral calculus; applications of integration. Carries MCS divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS MA 124: Calculus II
           			Students may receive credit for not more than one of the following courses: CAS MA 122, MA 124, MA 127, or MA 129. Logarithmic, exponential, and trigonometric functions. Sequences and series; Taylor's series with the remainder. Methods of integration. Calculus I and II together constitute an introduction to calculus of a function of a single real variable. Carries MCS divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS MA 127: Enriched Calculus
           			Students may receive credit for not more than one of the following courses: CAS MA 122, MA 124, MA 127, or MA 129. For students with prior experience in calculus. Emphasizes material from the end of Calculus 2 (sequences, Taylor series), reviews more challenging problems from Calculus 1. Carries MCS divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS MA 129: Honors Calculus
           			Students may receive credit for not more than one of the following courses: CAS MA 122, MA 124, MA 127, or MA 129. Alternative to CAS MA 127 for advanced students with a deep interest in mathematics. Continuity, degrees of differentiability, integrability. Transcendental functions. Techniques of differentiation and integration. Sequences, series, summability, uniform convergence. Complex numbers, Taylor series. Application to mechanics, probability. Carries MCS divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS MA 142: Introduction to Linear Algebra
	Systems of linear equations; matrices. Vector spaces and linear transformations. Determinants. Eigenvalues  and eigenvectors. Applications. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS MA 242, MA 442, or ENG EK  102.		

CAS MA 148: Investigations in Number Theory
	An immersion experience in mathematical thinking and mathematical habits of mind. Students investigate topics in number theory, starting from elementary notions of primes and divisibility and culminating in examples of number rings in which unique factorization does not hold.		

CAS MA 150: Investigations in Geometry
	An immersion experience in mathematical thinking and mathematical habits of mind. Students investigate  topics in Euclidean and non-Euclidean geometry starting from basic elementary material and leading to an  overview of current research topics. Does not satisfy MCS Divisional requirement. Does satisfy CAS WR 150  requirement.		

CAS MA 193: Discrete Mathematics for Engineering
	Propositional logic, set theory, relations, combinatorics, graphs. Topics are treated with particular emphasis on applications to the engineering discipline. (Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS MA 293.)		

CAS MA 196: Introductory Quantitative Biology
           			An introduction to the application of mathematics to problems in biology, with particular emphasis on questions arising from ecology, physiology, neuroscience, and genetics. Major focus on building  mathematical models for biological problems and analysis with graphical and mathematical techniques. Also offered as CAS BI 196.		

CAS MA 213: Basic Statistics and Probability
           			Students may receive credit for not more than one of the following courses: CAS MA 113, MA 115, or MA 213. Elementary treatment of probability densities, means, variances, correlation, independence, the binomial distribution, the central limit theorem. Stresses understanding and theoretical manipulation of statistical concepts. Carries MCS divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS MA 214: Applied Statistics
           			Students may receive credit for not more than one of the following courses: CAS MA 116, MA 214, or MA 614. Inference about proportions, goodness of fit, student's t-distribution, tests for normality; two-sample comparisons, regression and correlation, tests for linearity and outliers, residual analysis, contingency tables, analysis of variance. Carries MCS divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS MA 225: Multivariate Calculus
           			Vectors, lines, planes. Multiple integration, cylindrical and spherical coordinates. Partial derivatives,  directional derivatives, scalar and vector fields, the gradient, potentials, approximation, multivariate  minimization, Stokes's and related theorems. (Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS MA 230.) 		

CAS MA 226: Differential Equations
           			First-order linear and separable equations. Second-order equations and first-order systems. Linear equations and linearization. Numerical and qualitative analysis. Laplace transforms. Applications and modeling of real phenomena throughout. (Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS MA 231.)		

CAS MA 230: Honors-Level Vector Calculus
           			Linear algebra: linear transformations and matrices, inner products, cross products. Differentiation: tangent spaces, directional derivatives, gradients, vector fields and flow, divergence, curl. Integration: multiple integrals, line integrals, Green's theorem, surface integrals, Stokes's theorem, the divergence theorem.  (Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS MA 225.)		

CAS MA 231: Honors-Level Differential Equations
           			Ordinary differential equations with applications to mechanics, biology, and physics. First- and second-order equations, linear and nonlinear systems, Sturm-Louisville problems, vibrating strings, special functions, power series solutions, regular singular points, Laplace transforms, calculus of variations, isoperimetric problems, and Hamilton's principle. (Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS MA 226.)		

CAS MA 242: Linear Algebra
	Matrix algebra, solution of linear systems, determinants, Gaussian elimination, fundamental theory, row-echelon form. Vector spaces, bases, norms. Computer methods. Eigenvalues and eigenvectors, canonical decomposition. Applications. (Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS MA 142, MA 442, or ENG EK 102.)		

CAS MA 293: Discrete Mathematics
           			Propositional logic, set theory. Elementary probability theory. Number theory. Combinatorics with applications.		

CAS MA 294: Applied Abstract Algebra
           			Abstract algebra and its applications to combinatorics. A first exposure to groups, rings, and fields via  significant combinatorial applications. Students who have already received credit for MA 541 or MA 542  may not subsequently receive credit for MA 294.		

CAS MA 341: Introduction to Number Theory
           			Study of integers and basic results of number theory. Topics include Linear Diophantine equations, prime numbers and factorization, congruences, and quadratic reciprocity. 		

CAS MA 411: Advanced Calculus
           			Extends concepts and techniques of calculus and develops further applications. Topics include higher dimensional calculus, applications of vector analysis, uniform convergence of series, complex series, improper integrals, gamma and beta functions, Stirling's formula, Fourier series and transform. 		

CAS MA 412: Complex Variables
           			Basic concepts, results, and applications of complex analysis. Emphasis on computation and applications. Complex plane and functions, differentiability, Cauchy-Riemann conditions, contour integrals, Cauchy formulas, complex series, residue calculus, applications. Extends the concepts of the calculus to the complex setting. 		

CAS MA 416: Analysis of Variance
           			Fundamental concepts and analytical skills in analysis of variance, including crossed and nested designs, as well as fixed- and random- effect models. Trend analysis for repeated measures, expected mean squares, and non-parametric techniques. SAS is used throughout the course.		

CAS MA 442: Honors Level Linear Algebra
CAS MA 511: Introduction to Analysis I
		Fundamental concepts of mathematical reasoning. Properties of the real-number system, elementary point-set theory, metric spaces. Limits, sequences, series, convergence, uniform convergence, continuity. Differentiability for functions of a single variable, Riemann-Stieltjes integration. 		

CAS MA 512: Introduction to Analysis II
		Background of CAS MA 511 used to develop further topics of calculus. Exponential and logarithmic functions, Taylor series, power series, real analytic functions. Differential and integral calculus for functions of several variables. Line and surface integrals, divergence theorem, Stokes's theorem, inverse and implicit function theorems, change of variables. Fourier analysis. 		

CAS MA 528: Introduction to Modern Geometry
		The foundations of Euclidean geometry. Transformation and symmetries in the plane, inversive and projective planes, coordinates, conics and quadrics, the Golden Section, intermediary and Dedekind's axiom, models for non-Euclidean geometries. 		

CAS MA 531: Mathematical Logic
		The syntax and semantics of sentential and quantificational logic, culminating in the Gödel Completeness Theorem. The Gödel Incompleteness Theorem and its  ramifications for computability and philosophy. Also offered as CAS PH 461.		

CAS MA 532: Foundations of Mathematics
           			Axiomatic set theory as a foundation for mathematics and as a field of mathematics: Axiom of Choice, the  Continuum Hypothesis, and consistency results. Also offered as CAS PH 461.		

CAS MA 541: Modern Algebra I
	Basic properties of groups, Sylow theorems, basic properties of rings and ideals, Euclidean rings, polynomial rings. 		

CAS MA 542: Modern Algebra II
	Vector spaces and modules, Galois theory, linear transformations and matrices, canonical forms, bilinear and quadratic forms. 		

CAS MA 555: Numerical Analysis I
		Numerical solutions of equations, iterative methods, analysis of sequences. Theory of interpolation and functional approximation, divided differences. Numerical differentiation and integration. Polynomial theory. Ordinary differential equations. 		

CAS MA 556: Numerical Analysis II
		Numerical linear algebra; norms, elimination methods, error analysis, conditioning, eigenvalues, iterative methods, least squares and nonlinear functional minimization. Partial differentiation equation boundary value and initial value problems. Finite element methods. Legendre and Chebyshev polynomials. Treatment in greater depth of selected topics from CAS MA 555. 		

CAS MA 561: Methods of Applied Mathematics I
		Derivation and analysis of the classical equations of mathematical physics; heat equation, wave equation, and potential equation. Initial boundary value problems, method of separation of variables, eigenvalue problems, eigenfunction expansions. Fourier analysis. Existence and uniqueness of solution. 		

CAS MA 562: Methods of Applied Mathematics II
		Calculus of variations, first-order non-linear partial differential equations, Hamilton-Jacobi theory, Rayleigh-Ritz procedure, perturbation methods. 		

CAS MA 563: Introduction to Differential Geometry
           			Study of local properties of curves and surfaces in the three-dimensional Euclidean space; curvature, torsion, Frenet equations, tangent and normal planes; first and second fundamental form; developable surfaces, principal, mean and Gaussian curvature; vector fields, covariant differentiation, geodesics, surfaces of constant curvature. 		

CAS MA 564: Introduction to Topology
           			Introduction to point set and algebraic topology. Topological spaces and continuity. Compactness and connectedness. Metrizable topological spaces. Product topology and Tychonoff's theorem. The fundamental group and van Kampen's theorem. Covering spaces and the universal cover.		

CAS MA 565: Mathematical Models in the Life Sciences
CAS MA 577: Mathematics of Financial Derivatives
           			Develops the probabilistic tools used in finance and presents the methodologies that are used in the pricing of financial derivatives. No previous knowledge of finance is required.		

CAS MA 579: Numerical Methods for Biological Sciences
           			Introduction to the use of numerical methods for studying mathematical models of biological systems. Emphasis on the development of these methods; understanding their accuracy, performance, and stability; and their application to the study of biological systems.		

CAS MA 581: Probability
		Basic probability, conditional probability, independence. Discrete and continuous random variables, mean and variance, functions of random variables, moment generating function. Jointly distributed random variables, conditional distributions, independent random variables. Methods of transformations, law of large numbers, central limit theorem. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS MA 381.		

CAS MA 582: Mathematical Statistics
		Point estimation including unbiasedness, efficiency, consistency, sufficiency, minimum variance unbiased estimator, Rao-Blackwell theorem, and Rao-Cramer inequality. Maximum likelihood and method of moment estimations; interval estimation; tests of hypothesis, uniformly most powerful tests, uniformly most powerful unbiased tests, likelihood ratio test, and chi-square test. 		

CAS MA 583: Introduction to Stochastic Processes
		Basic concepts and techniques of stochastic process as they are most often used to construct models for a variety of problems of practical interest. Topics include Markov chains, Poisson process, birth and death processes, queuing theory, renewal processes, and reliability. 		

CAS MA 585: Time Series and Forecasting
           			Autocorrelation and partial autocorrelation functions; stationary and nonstationary processes; ARIMA and Seasonal ARIMA model identification, estimation, diagnostics, and forecasting. Modeling financial data via ARCH and GARCH models. Volatility estimation; additional topics, including long-range dependence and state-space models.		

CAS MA 588: Nonparametric Statistics
		The theory and logic in the development of nonparametric techniques including order statistics, tests based on runs, goodness of fit, rank-order (for location and scale), measures of association, analysis of variance, asymptotic relative efficiency. 		

CAS MA 589: Computational Statistics
           			Topics from computational statistics that are relevant to modern statistical applications: random number  generation, sampling, Monte Carlo methods, computational inference, MCMC methods, graphical models,  data partitioning, and bootstrapping. Emphasis on developing solid conceptual understanding of the  methods through applications.		

CAS MA 671: Chaotic Dynamical Systems
		This course is not open to CAS students. For graduate students in disciplines outside of mathematics. Iterations of functions of one or several variables. Periodicity, stability, chaos, fractals, bifurcations. Julia sets and the Mandelbrot set. Students are required to perform several experiments on personal computers. 		

CAS ME 101: Issues in Middle East and North Africa Studies
           			Mini-seminar to analyze and integrate students' coursework for the Middle East Studies and North Africa  Studies (MENA) major. Student presentations on relevant outside coursework, reading of foundational short  works to introduce competing approaches to MENA studies. Required of all MENA Studies majors.		

CAS MR 291: Undergraduate Marine Science Research
           			Research in marine science for students at the sophomore level. Students design and implement a research  project with a faculty member. Topic must be defined by time of registration. Course grade  determined by  performance and written report.		

CAS MR 292: Undergraduate Marine Science Research
           			Research in marine science for students at the sophomore level. Students design and implement a research  project with a faculty member. Topic must be defined by time of registration. Course grade  determined by  performance and written report.		

CAS MR 391: Undergraduate Marine Science Research
           			Research in marine science for students at the junior or senior level. Students design and implement a  research project with a faculty member. Topic must be defined by time of registration. Course grade  determined by performance and written report.		

CAS MR 392: Undergraduate Marine Science Research
           			Research in marine science for students at the junior or senior level. Students design and implement a  research project with a faculty member. Topic must be defined by time of registration. Course grade  determined by performance and written report.		

CAS MR 401: Senior Independent Work in Marine Science
CAS NE 338: Neuropsychology
           			Survey of theoretical aspects and major empirical findings in human neuropsychology, including memory,  language, spatial function, attention, emotion, and abstract thought.  Emphasis is on the relation between  brain disorders (resulting from head injury, stroke, degenerative disease, etc.) and abnormal behavior. Also  offered as CAS PS 338.		

CAS NE 340: Introduction to Computational Models of Skilled Decision and Action
           			Humans are facile skill learners. What brain circuits and learning mechanisms enable skilled selection of   plans and enactment of the plans chosen? Integrates interdisciplinary efforts to understand brain functions   well enough to allow accurate computer simulations of skill learning.		

CAS NE 360: Introduction to Computational Neuroscience of Speech, Language, and Hearing
           			Introduces the foundations of auditory perception including the mammalian auditory pathway, speech and  language perception, links with speech production, auditory scene analysis, and music perception from a  computational perspective. Laboratory computer assignments elucidate functional properties of these  systems.		

CAS NE 391: Undergraduate Research in Neuroscience III
           			Research in neuroscience for students at the junior level. Students design and implement a research project with a faculty member.		

CAS NE 392: Undergraduate Research in Neuroscience III
           			Research in neuroscience for students at the junior level. Students design and implement a research project with a faculty member.		

CAS NE 401: Senior Independent Work
           			Laboratory research project chosen and performed under supervision of an affiliated neuroscience faculty member. Research lab must be chosen and the project approved by the program and College by the time of registration. Grade is determined by laboratory participation, written report, and oral presentation.		

CAS NE 402: Senior Independent Work
           			Laboratory research project chosen and performed under supervision of an affiliated neuroscience faculty member. Research lab must be chosen and the project approved by the program and College by the time of registration. Grade is determined by laboratory participation, written report, and oral presentation.		

CAS NE 444: Neuroethology
           			Specialized natural behaviors reveal general principles of systems neuroscience. Examples include vocal  learning in songbirds, sensory-motor integration in bats, and pattern generators in lobsters. Three hours  lecture and literature discussion; three hours laboratory, including microchip programming and neural  recordings. Also offered as CAS BI 444.		

CAS NE 445: Cellular and Molecular Neurophysiology
           			Cellular and molecular basis of neural excitability and synaptic transmission. The molecular understanding of ion channels is extrapolated to higher brain functions such as learning, memory, and sleep. Three hours  lecture, three hours lab. Also offered as CAS BI 445.		

CAS NE 449: Neuroscience Design Lab
           			Design and build devices for neuroscience experiments. Interface sensors with computers using Arduino  microprocessors. Guided exercises followed by independent design projects to quantify human sensory  and motor performance, or emulate animal sensory-motor circuits. All levels of programming experience  accepted. Also offered as CAS BI 449. 		

CAS NE 455: Developmental Neurobiology
           			Fundamental principles of developmental neurobiology, stressing molecular mechanisms that underlie early neural development, differentiation, process outgrowth, and behavior. Three hours lecture, one hour  discussion. Also offered as CAS BI 455.		

CAS NE 481: Molecular Biology of the Neuron
           			Topics include electrical properties of neurons, a survey of neurotransmitters, molecular structure and  function of receptors, synaptic transmission, intracellular signaling, and the molecular biology of sensory  transduction. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion.  Also offered as CAS BI 481.		

CAS NE 491: Undergraduate Research in Neuroscience IV
           			Research in neuroscience for students at the senior level. Students design and implement a research project with a faculty member. A minimum of 12 hours per week in lab or field work, not including preparation or evaluation time. Research topic must be defined at the time of registration. Course grade is determined by laboratory performance and written report.		

CAS NE 492: Undergraduate Research in Neuroscience IV
           			Research in neuroscience for students at the senior level. Students design and implement a research project with a faculty member. A minimum of 12 hours per week in lab or field work, not including preparation or evaluation time. Research topic must be defined at the time of registration. Course grade is to be determined by laboratory performance and written report.		

CAS NE 520: Sensory Neurobiology
           			A broad survey of sensory system function in model organisms and humans, focusing on fundamental  principles of neural processing. Topics include basic cellular transduction, neural coding, and links  between neural activity and sensory perception. Also offered as CAS BI  520.		

CAS NE 525: Biology of Neurodegenerative Diseases
           			An in-depth look at molecular mechanisms of neurodegenerative diseases and their impact and relevance  in clinical diagnosis and treatment. Topics include the molecular pathways of Alzheimer's, Parkinson's,  Huntington's, and Creuztfeldt-Jacob Disease, and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. Also offered as CAS BI  525.		

CAS NE 545: Neurobiology of Motivated Behavior
           			Molecular and neuroendocrine mechanisms controlling reproductive and parental behaviors, ingestive  behaviors and metabolism, and circadian rhythms, pain perception, and reward in vertebrates. Three hours  lecture plus student-led discussions of relevant research papers. Also offered as CAS BI 545.		

CAS NE 554: Neuroendocrinology
           			Studies how the two major integrative organ systems of animals, the endocrine and the nervous systems,  interact to control physiological and behavioral aspects of reproduction, development, growth, biological  rhythms, and homeostasis. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion. Also offered as CAS BI 554.		

CAS NS 101: Integrated Science I
	Laboratory-discussion course.  Elementary kinematics and dynamics, conservation laws, introductory electricity and magnetism, properties of light, atoms and molecules, the chemistry and properties of materials.  Course work is closely tied to laboratory experiments. Laboratories include computer-based laboratory instruction and computer simulations.		

CAS NS 102: Integrated Science II
           			Laboratory-discussion course. Introduction to the evolution of stars, the universe, and planetary systems.  Physical description of the planet Earth.  Introduction to ecology, environmental science, evolution of life, organisms, and genetics. Students engage in laboratory experiments, group work, and computer simulations.      		

CAS NS 221: Oceanography
           			Explores how interconnected ocean characteristics (bathymetry, seawater chemistry, biological diversity)  and processes (plate tectonics, surface and deep‐water circulation, biological production) shape global  patterns across multiple scales. Discussion of destination‐specific environmental issues and hot topics in  marine research.		

CAS NS 222: Maritime Studies
           			Relationship between humans and the sea. History, literature and art of our maritime heritage. Ships as  agents of change. Political and economic challenges of contemporary marine affairs. Destination‐specific  focus.		

CAS NS 223: Nautical Science
           			The fundamentals of sailing ship operation, in preparation for direct application at sea. Navigation  (piloting, celestial, and electronic), weather, engineering systems, safety, and sail theory. Participation as  an active member of the ship's crew on an offshore voyage.		

CAS NS 224: Practical Oceanographic Research
           			Provides students with knowledge of the equipment and methodology used in the study of the oceans.  Each student collects and analyzes data in support of a research project in a selected aspect of  oceanography aboard the SEA sailing research vessels.		

CAS NS 320: Ocean Science and Public Policy
           			Culture, history, political systems, and science can shape ocean policy. Students practice current strategies  to build, analyze, and communicate about diverse policy issues. Examines the power, use, and limitations  of science and the scientist's voice in determining ocean policy.		

CAS NS 321: Oceans in the Global Carbon Cycle
           			Ocean as carbon source and sink. Examines global‐scale flux patterns and carbon storage mechanisms,  from solubility/biological pumps to geo‐engineering. Explores buffering capacity and mitigation strategies  in the face of anthropogenic carbon cycle perturbations. Oral presentation and written research proposal  required.		

CAS NS 322: Maritime History and Culture
           			Explores impacts of European maritime ventures on the societies they contacted in the Atlantic or Pacific,  with focus on the resulting social, political, economic, and cultural changes. Investigates responses  documented in the post‐Colonial literature of indigenous people.		

CAS NS 323: Marine Environmental History
           			Employs methods and sources of historians and social scientists. Examines the role of human societies in  coastal and open ocean environmental change. Issues include resource conservation, overfishing,  pollution, invasive species, and climate change.		

CAS NS 326: The Ocean & Global Change
           			Ocean ecosystem change in the anthropocene: warming, acidification, fisheries depletion, and pollution.  Reviews principles of circulation, seawater chemistry, nutrient dynamics, and biological production to  understand causes and consequences of change. Field measurements for contribution to time‐series  datasets are conducted.		

CAS NS 327: Cultural Landscapes and Seascapes: A Sense of Place
           			Field‐intensive analysis and documentation of dynamic relationships between nature and culture in specific  coastal, island, and ocean places. Cultural landscape and related interdisciplinary bio‐cultural approaches  are applied to place‐based environmental studies.		

CAS NS 328: Toward a Sustainable Ocean: Conservation & Management
           			Comparative and issue‐driven introduction to managing human uses and conserving coastal and ocean  places and resources. Explores concepts of technology, governance, sector and ecosystem management,  and marine protected areas through expert content lectures, topical seminars, and field trips.		

CAS NS 329: Leadership in a Dynamic Environment
           			How to be an effective leader while leveraging the individual strengths of a team. Uses leadership theory  and case studies to understand how decisions affect outcomes. Students participate as an active member  of a ship's crew, progressively assuming full leadership roles.		

CAS NS 330: Data Communication & Visualization
CAS NS 450: Advanced Topics in Biological Oceanography
           			In-depth treatment of a single topic in biological oceanography. Extensive review of classical and  contemporary literature. Introduction and practice of current laboratory techniques. Oral presentation and research paper required. Topics may include marine plankton ecology, biodiversity, and satellite oceanography.		

CAS NS 460: Advanced Ocean Policy Research
           			Advanced policy research focusing on a topic of current importance (may include fisheries, biodiversity,  marine spatial planning, and cultural heritage). Emphasis on theoretical concepts, research methods, and  communication skills. Requires critical review paper, original research, final report and presentation.		

CAS NS 540: Concepts in Physics I: Forces and Motion
           			For teachers. Mastery of Newtonian concepts including rectilinear motion, Newton's Laws, and conservation  of momentum and energy. In order to build pedagogical content knowledge, historical and philosophical  context is provided, and science education research on misconceptions in learning classical mechanics is  introduced. Cannot be taken for credit by CAS and GRS students.		

CAS NS 541: Concepts in Physics II: Rotation and Gravitation
           			For teachers. Mastery of physics concepts including uniform circular motion, rotational motion, and gravitation. In order to build pedagogical content knowledge, a historical and philosophical context is provided, and related science education research on misconceptions in learning classical mechanics is also introduced. Cannot be taken for credit by CAS and GRS students.		

CAS NS 542: Concepts in Physics III: Fluids and Theormodynamics
           			For teachers. Mastery of concepts including fluids and thermodynamics. Connections between microscopic and macroscopic behavior as an example of physical science models. Concepts are discussed in historical and philosophical context to build pedagogical content knowledge. Pedagogy rooted in science education research. Cannot be taken for credit by CAS and GRS students. 		

CAS NS 543: Concepts in Physics IV: Electrostatics, Magnetostatics, DC circuits
           			For teachers. Mastery of concepts including electric charge, electric and magnetic fields, and DC circuits. These topics are placed in historical and philosophical context to build pedagogical content knowledge. Discussion of pedagogy is rooted in science education research. Cannot be taken for credit by CAS and GRS students.		

CAS NS 544: Concepts in Physics V: Waves and Optics
           			For teachers. Mastery of concepts of the physics of waves and geometric optics. Concepts discussed in historical and philosophical context to build pedagogical content knowledge. Discussion of pedagogy rooted in science education research on students' misconceptions. Cannot be taken for credit by CAS and GRS students.		

CAS NS 545: Concepts in Physics V: Electromagnetism
           			For teachers. Mastery of concepts of electromagnetic induction, AC circuits, and physical optics. Concepts are discussed in historical and philosophical context to build pedagogical content knowledge. Discussion of pedagogy rooted in science education research on students' misconceptions. Cannot be taken for credit by CAS and GRS students.		

CAS NS 546: Concepts in Physics VI: Quantum Physics
           			For teachers. Mastery of the foundations of quantum physics, such as blackbody radiation, the photoelectric effect, and wave-particle duality. Concepts are discussed in historical and philosophical context to build pedagogical content knowledge. Discussion of pedagogy is rooted in science education research. Cannot be taken for credit by CAS and GRS students.		

CAS NS 547: Concepts in Modern Physics II: Special Relativity and Related Topics
           			For teachers. Mastery of the foundations of Einstein's Theory of Special Relativity and applications to nuclear and particle physics, and to astronomy and cosmology. The development of understanding of space and time, and the pedagogical issues that arise are addressed. Cannot be taken for credit by CAS and GRS students.		

CAS NS 548: Computer Modeling of Physical Phenomena
           			For teachers. Covers use of simulations to model classical physical phenomena and investigations of nonlinear dynamics and chaos. Discussion of education research on the classroom use of computer simulations, and the history and pedagogical challenges of nonlinear dynamics. Cannot be taken for credit by CAS and GRS students.		

CAS PH 100: Introduction to Philosophy
	Introduces the nature of philosophical activity through careful study of major philosophical topics. Topics  include happiness, knowledge, and God's existence.  How is knowledge acquired? What reasons are there  for supposing that God exists? Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS PH 110: Great Philosophers
	An introduction to philosophy through a reading of great figures in western thought. The list may include  Plato, Aristotle, Descartes, Roussesau, Nietzsche, Russell. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS PH 150: Introduction to Ethics
	What is morality? What does morality require of us in our daily lives? We look both at theories that specify  what morality requires of us and at specific moral issues to which these theories apply. Carries humanities  divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS PH 155: Politics and Philosophy
	An introduction to major themes and questions in political philosophy. Includes a study of classical and  modern texts, as well as an exploration of contemporary political issues. Carries CAS humanities division  credit.		

CAS PH 159: Philosophy and Film
	An introduction to philosophy via reflecting on philosophical issues connected with film as a medium.  Topics include general aesthetics, representation, emotion and narrative, genre, fictionalism, and whether film can be immoral. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS PH 160: Reasoning and Argumentation
	A systematic study of the principles of both deductive and informal   reasoning, calculated to enhance students' actual reasoning skills, with   an emphasis on reasoning and argumentation in ordinary discourse. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS PH 170: Philosophy of Science and Pseudoscience
	How do legitimate science and quackery differ? We distinguish legitimate scientific debates from  arguments by dubious sources. We explore how science progresses, and how non-experts can evaluate  surprising arguments that claim to be "scientific." Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 223: Philosophy of Sport
CAS PH 239: Philosophy of Emotion
	We feel emotions throughout our lives, yet they remain mysterious. What is an "emotion"? How do  emotions differ from moods, attitudes, or dispositions? Are some more basic than others? Can they be  assessed ethically? Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course by the same name numbered CAS PH 439. 		

CAS PH 241: Philosophy of Personality
	Consideration of the nature of self-understanding and self-realization. Psychological and philosophical  perspectives on pattern, growth, and maturity in personality. Attention to philosophical issues regarding  emotion in the healthy personality; rationality, freedom, and responsibilty. Carries humanities divisional  credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 242: Philosophy of Human Nature
	Consideration of how questions about human nature receive philosophical formulation through analyzing  depth, courage, authority, intensity, possibility, transcendence, tradition, adventure, unity, sex, struggle,  and peace. Discussion of past and recent work in philosophical anthropology. Carries humanities divisional  credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 244: How Are We To Live? Ethics in Action
	Explores topics in practical ethics, including poverty, the right to healthcare, killing in medicine, killing in  war, capital punishment, the treatment of non-human animals, and the biomedical enhancement of human  capacities and human nature. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 245: Philosophy and Religion
	An introduction to the philosophy of religion, which explores questions such as the existence and nature  of God, God's place in the good life, and the spiritual quest. Both classical and contemporary works are  studied. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 246: Indian Philosophy
           			Indian philosophy in a comparative context, with special emphasis on Hindu nondualism. Carries  humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 247: Introduction to Chinese Philosophy
	An introduction to the Chinese philosophical tradition, including a study of classical   Confucianism,  Buddhism, Taoism, Mohism, Legalism, and modern developments. Carries humanities divisional credit in  CAS.		

CAS PH 248: Existentialism
	Explores existentialism in contemporary philosophy. Topics include the grounds for belief and value;  depth, superficiality, and the intense life; commitment and open-mindedness; boredom, anxiety, and  adventure; and existentialism as a philosophy of the possible. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 251: Medical Ethics
	Explores moral philosophical issues that arise in connection with medicine and emerging biotechnologies.  Examines topics such as the right to healthcare, research ethics, euthanasia, abortion, concepts of death  and disease, and assisted reproductive technologies. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 253: Social Philosophy
	A survey of philosophical and sociological analyses of modern Western society, including Rousseau, Marx,  Weber, and a number of contemporary writers. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 254: Political Philosophy
	A study of western political philosophy that may include texts by authors such as Aristotle, Hobbes, Marx,  Kant, Schmitt, Rawls. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 256: Philosophy of Gender and Sexuality
	Analyzes notions of gender and sexuality. Questions include: Are gender and sexual identity natural, or are they social constructions? How are they related to love and desire? Carries humanities divisional credit in  CAS. Also offered as CAS PO 396.		

CAS PH 258: Philosophy and Literature
	Examines literature and philosophy through the sorts of demands they place upon reason, experience, and  language. Authors may include William James, Henry James, Wallace Stevens, T.S. Elliot, and many others.  Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 259: Philosophy of the Arts
	What makes something beautiful? How do different arts (music, dance, painting, sculpture, architecture,  film, drama) relate to our aesthetic experience of the world? Explores several philosophical theories of art  through specific examples of artwork. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 261: Puzzles and Paradoxes
	Our basic beliefs, when scrutinized, can yield absurd conclusions. For example, using seemingly  uncontroversial beliefs, we can conclude that motion is impossible and that everyone is bald. This course  examines many puzzles and paradoxes. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 265: Minds and Machines
	Examines efforts of artificial intelligence to model the human mind and explain human thought. Explores  the historical and mathematical origins of such efforts, and the psychological and philosophical  assumptions on which they depend. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 266: Mind, Brain, and Self
	Philosophical introduction to cognitive science. Considers the historical and intellectual background from  which cognitive science has emerged, as well as philosophical issues concerning the mind, brain, and self  that arise from contemporary scientific research. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 270: Philosophy of Science
	Uses scientific examples from the study of physics, biology, and mind. Focuses on the aims of science, the  nature of scientific understanding, the structure and interpretation of scientific theories, and the  development of science. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 272: Science, Technology, and Values
	Examination of some of the important ways in which science, technology, society, and human values are  interconnected. Includes case studies of the social and ethical challenges posed by computer, military, and   biological technology. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 300: History of Ancient Philosophy
           			Classical Greek philosophy, with a concentration on the philosophies of Plato and Aristotle.		

CAS PH 310: History of Modern Philosophy
           			An examination of seventeenth- and eighteenth-century philosophy from Descartes to Kant, with emphasis on the nature and extent of knowledge. Readings include Descartes, Locke, Spinoza, Berkley, Hume, and Kant.		

CAS PH 350: History of Ethics
           			A critical and comparative examination of the ideas of representative moral philosophers from Plato to Nietzsche.		

CAS PH 360: Symbolic Logic
           			Study of methods characteristic of modern deductive logic including use  of truth tables, Boolean normal forms, models, and indirect and  conditional proofs within the theory of truth-functions and quantifiers.		

CAS PH 401: Senior Independent Work
           			Individual tutorial instruction and directed research at distinction level.		

CAS PH 402: Senior Independent Work
           			Individual tutorial instruction and directed research at distinction level.		

CAS PH 403: Plato I
           			(Knowledge of Greek is helpful but not required. Familiarity with Greek philosophy is helpful.) A close reading of the Symposium.		

CAS PH 405: Aristotle I
           			A careful study of the philosophy of Aristotle conducted primarily through a close reading of several of his major works.		

CAS PH 406: Aristotle II
           			A close reading of Aristotle's writings on practical philosophy (i.e., the Nicomachean Ethics and the Politics) and of his philosophy of art in the Poetics, focusing on the nature of human happiness and the good life, the question of the best form of political government, and the function of art for life.		

CAS PH 408: History of Medieval Philosophy
           			Topic for Fall 2014: Mysticism and Philosophy: Jewish and Islamic Perspectives. Thematic introduction to  mysticism and philosophy, with a focus on dynamics of religious experience. Readings from medieval  Jewish and Islamic philosophy; Sufi mysticism and philosophy; Kabbalah, Biblical interpretation, Sufi  poetry, Hebrew poetry from the Golden Age of Muslim Spain.		

CAS PH 409: Maimonides
           			A study of major aspects of the thought of Maimonides. Primary focus on the Guide of the Perplexed, with attention to its modern reception in works by Baruch Spinoza, Hermann Cohen, Leo Strauss, and others. Also offered as CAS RN 420.		

CAS PH 410: Continental Rationalism
           			A critical study of major texts of seventeenth-century philosophy. 		

CAS PH 411: British Empiricism
           			A critical study of major texts of British Empiricists, with emphasis on Locke and Hume. 		

CAS PH 412: Philosophy of the Enlightenment
	A critical examination of that family of philosophical and political movements that called itself "the  Enlightenment." Students analyze key texts by Descartes, Hobbes, Locke, Smith, Rousseau, Voltaire,  Diderot, Jefferson, Madison, Kant, and Hegel. Also offered as CAS PO 592 and CAS HI 514.		

CAS PH 413: Kant
           			A study of Kant's critical philosophy, focusing on one or more of his works.		

CAS PH 415: Nineteenth-Century Philosophy
           			Study of the important themes in the philosophy of Hegel, Marx, Kierkegaard, and Nietzsche. 		

CAS PH 418: Marx and Marxism
           			Philosophical foundation of Marxism and its development. Critical study of Marx's writings stressing  questions of philosophy, political economy, science, and history. Emphasis on Marx's theory of relation of  praxis to consciousness. Later (including contemporary) Marxists and critics. Also offered as CAS PO 498.		

CAS PH 419: Nietzsche
CAS PH 427: Heidegger and Existential Philosophy
           			A study of the main topics of Heidegger's philosophy against the background of his interpretation of Husserl's phenomenology, Kant's transcendental philosophy, and ancient Greek philosophy, with an emphasis on the concepts of being, time, and truth.  		

CAS PH 436: Gender, Race, and Science
           			Examines issues in feminist philosophy, philosophy of race, and philosophy of science. Is "race" a genuine scientific category or a social construct? How have views about gender and race changed? Why are there still so few women and minority scientists?		

CAS PH 440: Metaphysics
	A survey of basic questions in contemporary metaphysics that may include reality, time, change, free will,  personal identity, and causation.		

CAS PH 441: Philosophical Idealism
           			Introduction to the post-Kantian development of German idealism through analysis and critical discussion of texts by Fichte and Schelling.		

CAS PH 443: Philosophy of Mind
           			The topic is sentience, embodiment, and the brain. The aim is to develop a "neurophenomenological" approach to consciousness and embodied experience in cognitive science and the philosophy of mind. 		

CAS PH 446: Philosophy of Religion
           			An examination of principal issues and topics in the philosophy of religion in the following two stages: first, a historical overview of the philosophy of religion as a discipline or subdiscipline of philosophy and theology; second, attention to the problems and challenges facing this discipline in the context of the comparative study of religions. 		

CAS PH 450: Types of Ethical Theory
           			A survey of basic ethical theories including those in the Kantian, utilitarian, and virtue-ethics traditions.		

CAS PH 451: Contemporary Ethical Theory
           			An examination of twentieth-century English and American moral theories including those of Moore, Foot, Williams, MacIntyre, and Rawls.		

CAS PH 452: Ethics of Health Care
           			Medicine and health care offer a unique opportunity to explore the nature of humanity and the world and to ask fundamental questions concerning the nature of birth, life, and death, and what it is to be a person. Readings from both classical and contemporary writings in ethics, medicine, law, and public health policy. 		

CAS PH 454: Community, Liberty, and Morality
	Traces the contemporary movement known as Virtue Ethics, which has revived a characteristic approach to ethics of ancient Greek philoosphers such as Plato and Arsitotle. Focus on understanding VE's critique of modern approaches and on evaluating its advocates' positive claims.		

CAS PH 455: Legal Philosophy
           			A critical examination of ideas about the nature of law, duties of obedience and resistance, and legal   interpretation, with an emphasis on modern theories. Because this course meets with a Law School course,   its schedule follows the Law School's standard academic calendar. Also meets with CAS PO 496.		

CAS PH 456: Topics in Philosophy and Religion
	Topic for Fall 2014: Philosophy and the Future of Religion. Examines key questions in the contemporary  philosophy of religion, including the possibility of religion without God, "naturalized" or scientific views of  religion, religious pluralism, and inter-religious tolerance. Featuring visiting lecturers in fall Institute for  Philosophy and Religion lecture series. Also offered as CAS RN 397.		

CAS PH 457: Action, Interpretation, and Narrative
           			What is the relationship between understanding behavior and understanding texts? What is the role of narrative in interpretation? Using philosophical reflections on narrative from Plato to MacIntyre, the course studies philosophy and tragedy as two perhaps antithetical traditions of interpretation.		

CAS PH 458: Crime and Punishment: Philosophical Perspectives
           			Study of fundamental issues in criminal law, including the theory and definition of crime; economic, utilitarian, and retributivist justifications of punishment; exculpating circumstances; the death penalty; and the relationship between law and politics. Also offered as CAS PO 497.  		

CAS PH 459: Political and Legal Philosophy
           			Examination of the individual's responsibilities under law, specifically of the idea that there is a general   moral obligation to obey the law, including unjust law, and the contrasting idea of civil disobedience-- the   possibility of morally justified resistance to law. Also offered as CAS PO 499.		

CAS PH 460: Epistemology
           			An examination of some of the central questions concerning the nature, scope, sources, and structure of knowledge.		

CAS PH 461: Mathematical Logic
CAS PH 468: Philosophical Problems of Logic and Mathematics
           			Selected traditional metaphysical and epistemological problems in the light of modern logic and various studies in the foundations of mathematics, including the nature of the axiomatic method, completeness in logic and mathematics, and the nature of mathematical truth. 		

CAS PH 470: Philosophy of Physics
           			Philosophical problems concerning the interpretation of physical discoveries. Elementary particles, the anomalies of quantum mechanics, some modern problems of space and time, and the problem of wholes and parts. 		

CAS PH 472: Philosophy of Biology
           			Conceptual problems in biology; unity or pluralism of science; hierarchy theory; biological explanation; evolutionary theory, teleology and casuality, statistical explanation; the species problem; mind and the brain; and language in animals and humans.		

CAS PH 477: Philosophy of the Social Sciences
	Topics in the philosophy of the social sciences such as the interpretation of human action and the objectivity of social inquiry. Social consideration of alternative theoretic viewpoints such as naturalism and interpretivism.   		

CAS PH 480: Topics in Ancient and Medieval Philosophy
	Topic for Fall 2010: TBA.		

CAS PH 482: Topics in Modern and Contemporary Philosophy
           			Topics vary from semester to semester; may be repeated for credit as topics change. Topic for Spring  2013: Heidegger. A careful reading of Heidegger's major work, Being and Time. The end of the course  looks at some of Heidegger's shorter works written later in his career, in order to consider some of the  directions of his famous "turn."		

CAS PH 485: Topics in Philosophy of Value
	Topics vary from year to year. Topic for Fall 2014: Happiness, East and West. What is happiness? How can   we achieve a balanced, healthy, fulfilling life? Classical thinkers such as Aristotle, Plato, Chuang Tzu;   Buddhist, Confucian, Epicurean, and Stoic paths; comparison with contemporary studies of happiness. Also  offered as CAS RN 452.		

CAS PH 487: Topics in the Philosophy of Science
           			A discussion-based introduction to core issues in the philosophy of science, focusing on the topics of  scientific realism, theory change, reductionism, explanation, models, and natural kinds.		

CAS PH 491: Directed Study
           			Individual or small group tutorial instruction and directed research on selected topics.		

CAS PH 492: Directed Study
           			Individual or small group tutorial instruction and directed research on selected topics.		

CAS PO 111: Introduction to American Politics
	Undergraduate core course. Study of the national political structure; emphasis on Congress, the executive, administrative agencies, and the judiciary. Relations between formal institutions, parties, and interest  groups. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to  the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 211.		

CAS PO 141: Introduction to Public Policy
	Undergraduate core course. Analysis of several issue areas: civil rights, school desegregation, welfare and social policy, education and urban housing, energy and the environment. Characteristics of policy systems in each issue area are analyzed to identify factors which may affect the content and implementation of public policies. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course by the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 241. 		

CAS PO 151: Introduction to Comparative Politics
	Undergraduate core course. Meets with CAS IR 251. Examines different patterns of political development  and contemporary politics in Western Europe, Latin America, Africa, and the former Soviet bloc. Introduces  the comparative method in political science and competing theories of political development and political  change. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was  previously numbered CAS PO 251.		

CAS PO 171: Introduction to International Relations
	(Meets with CAS IR 271.) Undergraduate core course. Study of basic factors in international relations, Western state system, balance of power, nationalism, and imperialism. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 271.		

CAS PO 172: Freshman Seminar in International Relations
	Freshman seminar version of CAS PO 171. Study of foundational theories in international relations, peace  and conflict, nationalism, and imperialism. Students may not receive credit for both CAS PO 172 and CAS  PO 171 or CAS IR 271. CAS PO 172 does not replace CAS IR 271. Carries social science divisional credit in  CAS.		

CAS PO 191: Introduction to Political Theory
	Major works of political philosophy are considered, to address fundamental questions of political life. Looks at different conceptions of authority, justice, liberty, and equality, including how they justify and define government, law, and rights and how they pertain to current issues. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course by the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 291. 		

CAS PO 301: Presidential Leadership
	Presidential power and functions; relations with Congress, political party, and the public; personality and  leadership; and comparative study of selected presidents. This course cannot be taken for credit in  addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 317.		

CAS PO 302: Congress and Its Critics
           			Is Congress the "broken branch"? Can it be fixed? How congress works; legislative process; interactions  with other branches; congressional elections; campaign finance; how Congress has changed and may  evolve in the future. This course  cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the title "The  Legislative Process in America" that was previously numbered CAS PO 311.		

CAS PO 304: The Judicial Process
           			Introduction to the judicial process. Topics include the role of lawyers and judges, the structure of the  court system, juries, and legal reasoning. Primarily intended for students who have little or no exposure to  law courses.  This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with  the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 315. (Offered alternate years.)		

CAS PO 306: Media and Politics in the United States
CAS PO 308: The Politics of Race and Ethnicity
	Definitional hypotheses of race and ethnicity based on cultural, sociological, and biological determinants tested against concrete examples of plural societies in Africa, Europe, Asia, and the Americas. Correlations  between racial/ethnic differentiation and sociopolitical stratification and cleavages examined. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 351.		

CAS PO 309: Women and Politics
           			(Meets with CAS WS 350.) Readings, discussion, and field research on issues of women's relationship to  the processes of political influence, change, and empowerment. Analysis of public policy related to women and children. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was  previously numbered CAS PO 342.		

CAS PO 313: The Politics and Policy of HBO's The Wire
	HBO's television series The Wire is used to explore politics and policy. A number of interdisciplinary topics  are covered, including the war on drugs, urban elections, bureaucracy, rational choice theory, and the  decline of American cities.		

CAS PO 321: Foundations of American Public Policy
	Investigates the social and political roots of U.S. policy solutions.  Cross-national comparisons and   historical perspectives are used to shed light on seemingly unique American solutions to pressing social  and economic problems. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same  title that was previously numbered CAS PO 343.		

CAS PO 324: Comparative Public Policy
           			Meets with CAS IR 340. Comparative study of the public policies of advanced societies in such areas as health training, unemployment, poverty, and budget.  Explores why countries develop different solutions to policy needs, and evaluates the strengths and weaknesses of various national approaches. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS  PO 341.		

CAS PO 325: Campaigns and Elections Around the World
           			Meets with CAS IR 302. Electoral campaigns in Latin America, Europe, and Asia. Changes in campaigns over   time; role of international political consultants; influence of party systems, electoral systems, campaign   finance regulation, vote buying, and mass media; campaign effects on voting behavior and public opinion.  This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS PO 302.		

CAS PO 327: Non-State Actors in International Relations
	Meets with CAS IR 333. Examines the important role of non-state actors in international relations. Non- state actors include subnational governments, international organizations, multinational corporations,   non-governmental organizations, religious groups, violent groups, for-profit security firms, social  movements, and grassroots organizations. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course  with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 333.		

CAS PO 328: North-South Relations
	Meets with CAS IR 395. Employs a multidisciplinary approach to analyze the relations between the industrialized nations of the  "North" and the developing nations of the "South." Addresses historical and current issues in North-South  relations, including trade, investment, migration, regional economic integration, and the environment. This  course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 352.		

CAS PO 329: International Political Economy
           			Meets with CAS IR 390. Emphasizes the dynamic interaction between politics and economics to  understand and explain historical and contemporary issues in international political economy, including  international monetary, trade, investment, financial, and environmental relations. Considers emerging  challenges and structures in the international political economy. This course cannot be taken for credit  in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 355. 		

CAS PO 331: The Policymaking Process
	An overview of policymaking in the United States and an exploration of the process, including obstacles  faced, of political change. Toward the end of the semester, specific policy areas are analyzed to illustrate  some of the broader topics.		

CAS PO 332: Global Justice
	Charts the historical course of human development and inquires why the quality of life varies so  dramatically in the world today. Geographic, economic, and political factors are explored.		

CAS PO 341: European Politics
	Meets with CAS IR 362. Comparative study of politics in member states of the European Union, with  emphasis on  political development, institutions, major issues in contemporary politics, and the impact  of  European integration. Selective references to original and new member states of the EU.  This course  cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS  PO 361.		

CAS PO 343: Europe and International Relations
	Meets with CAS IR 250. Provides an overview European affairs. Topics include the foreign policies of  European nations, the dynamics of European integration, NATO, international migration and ethnic conflict,  and European relations with the United States, Russia, and neighboring countries. This course cannot be  taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 382.		

CAS PO 344: Comparative Political Development
	How and why politics takes one form or another in different countries and at different points in time are  questions of "political development." Revolutions, constitutions, party systems, different political  identities, and different varieties of capitalism all represent the outcome of historical processes. How  social scientists account for such historical outcomes, with examples from across the world, in  particular Europe, the Americas (including the United States), and Asia. This course cannot be taken for  credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 357.		

CAS PO 350: The Pacific Challenge
	(Meets with CAS IR 275.) The dynamic growth of the Pacific Rim countries poses an impressive array of  challenges for the U.S. and the world. Analyzes Japanese trade and defense policies, the rise of the  "mini-dragons" (Taiwan, South Korea, Hong Kong, and Singapore) and "new mini-dragons" (Indonesia,  Thailand, and Malaysia), "Confucian capitalism," democratization (and its failure in China), and legacies  of the Indochina war. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title  that was previously numbered CAS PO 365.		

CAS PO 351: China: from Revolution to Reform
	(Meets with CAS IR 370.) Explores the economic, political, and social upheavals that followed the Chinese  revolution in 1949 and the cause of subsequent inauguration of reform in the late 1970s. Analyzes the  tensions that brought about the 1989 upheaval in Tiananmen Square, as well as the implications of China's  emergence as an economic power. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the  same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 369.		

CAS PO 352: Rise of China
	(Meets with CAS IR 365.) China's political, economic, and strategic development since the late nineteenth  century, with emphasis on the period since 1949. Examines three questions: In what ways is China rising?  How did it happen? What are the impacts of China's rise on the U.S. and the global system? This course  cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 374.		

CAS PO 355: International Relations of South Asia
	Meets with CAS IR 372. Introduction to South Asia and regional conflict and cooperation. Focus on India,  Pakistan, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Sri Lanka inter-state relations; great power interventions; power  distributions; norms; political, military, and economic conflict and cooperation. This course cannot  be  taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 378.		

CAS PO 356: Nuclear Security
	Meets with CAS IR 353. Provides students with the foundation for understanding nuclear security in the   twenty-first century. Emphasis on the American Cold War experience, the growing threat of nuclear proliferation, the renaissance of civilian nuclear power, safeguards, and nuclear weapons under budget   constraints.		

CAS PO 357: Causes of War and Peace
	Meets with CAS IR 347. War is the most destructive social act in which humanity engages. Why does war  happen?  This question is addressed by focusing on a variety of scholarly explanations. Theoretical  discussions are paired with an examination of historical cases.		

CAS PO 360: Introduction to Latin American Politics and International Relations
	(Meets with CAS IR 367.) Introduction to the patterns and complexities of Latin American politics and foreign policies. Focuses on the distinctive Latin American political experience and alternative explanations for it, including  colonization, the international economy, and human and material resource capacity and utilization. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 367.		

CAS PO 370: Soviet Politics, 1917-91
	Meets with CAS IR 363. Analysis of the structure and functioning of major political institutions - government bureaucracy, Communist party, and others - and polity-society relations during the 74 years of the USSR's existence. Prime focus is institutional rather than historical and deals with the Soviet political  "game" as it was played. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 363.		

CAS PO 371: The Politics of Post-Communist Russia
	(Meets with CAS IR 364.) Analysis of the emergent political forces, institutions, and alliances in the post- Soviet Russian Federation, against the background of the unresolved economic, ethnic, and social  problems that are the USSR's legacy to the "new Russia"; prospects for stabilization are assessed in the  context of the multiple crises facing Russia today. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 364.		

CAS PO 372: Russian and Post-Soviet Foreign Relations
	Meets with CAS IR 375. Decisive factors in the foreign relations of Russia and the other former Soviet republics, including  historical continuity and change, survival and change of ideology, domestic politics, economic and  geographical factors, military and external political considerations. The future of arms control, nuclear  weapons, the economy, and relations among the former republics are also examined. This course  cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered  CAS PO 375.		

CAS PO 377: Africa in International Politics
	Meets with CAS IR 351. Introduction to the international relations of post-colonial Africa. Core themes   include the politics of post-independence international alignments, the external causes and effects of   authoritarian rule, and Africa's role in the global political economy. This course cannot be taken for credit  in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 390.		

CAS PO 378: International Human Rights: Applying Human Rights in Africa
	Meets with CAS IR 352. Studies the growing international influence on politics of human rights principles,   documents, and organizations, drawing especially on African cases such as Congo, Zimbabwe, and Sudan.   Topics include universality vs. cultural relativism, individual vs. group rights, and issues in human rights   enforcement. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was  previously numbered CAS PO 587.		

CAS PO 380: Special Topics: International Relations in Political Science
	Two topics are offered Fall 2014. Students may take one or both for credit. Section A1: Wars, Peace, and  Diplomacy. Why do wars occur? What constitutes peace and how is it maintained? What are the virtues  and deficiencies of diplomacy as practitioners have sought to implement it? Readings center on  international politics texts and the U.S. foreign policy record. Also offered as CAS HI 280 A1. Section B1:  The Middle East in Crisis. Addresses the historical roots and modern patterns of internal and external  conflict across the MENA region. Specific topics include: the Arab Spring, dissent in Iran, Egypt's  transition, Syria's civil war, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, gender, religion, autocracy, sectarianism and  nuclear arms.		

CAS PO 381: History of American Foreign Relations since 1898
	Meets with CAS HI 287. Analysis of the history of American foreign policy from the perspective of the changing world and regional international systems; emphasis on the effect of these systems and the impact of America on the creation and operation of international systems. This course cannot be taken for  credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 366.  		

CAS PO 383: Making Sense of the World: Conceptual Foundations of International Relations
	(Meets with CAS IR 360.) Introduction to various analytical approaches for understanding the dynamics of  global interaction. Explores the variety of "worlds" made visible through the lens of theory. Fosters critical  thinking about how conceptual tools shape our understanding of the world and attempted solutions to  global problems. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 372.		

CAS PO 384: Global Governance and International Organization
	Meets with CAS IR 373. Provides an overview of major theoretical perspectives on the creation and function  of international organizations, comparative case studies of selected organizations, and an examination of  present and future roles of international organizations in selected issue areas. This course cannot be taken  for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 385.		

CAS PO 391: Classical to Early Modern Political Theory
	A text-oriented study of the principal political ideas of Plato, Aristotle, St. Augustine, St. Thomas Aquinas,  and Machiavelli. 		

CAS PO 392: Modern Political Theory
	Intensive study of the political philosophy of Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Mill, Marx, and Nietzsche. Classes  are generally a combination of lecture and discussion but also include formal debates, guest lectures, and  films. 		

CAS PO 393: The European Enlightenment
	Survey of the intellectual and social transformation of Europe from the 1680s to the French Revolution.   Readings draw on both eighteenth-century sources (including Voltaire, Diderot, Condorcet, Lessing, Smith,  and Hume) and recent work by historians. Also offered as CAS HI 215. This course cannot be taken for  credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 395.		

CAS PO 394: Catastrophe & Memory
	Examines the ways in which catastrophes, both natural and social, enter into cultural memory. Goal is to   understand how events that seem to defy comprehension are represented in works of art and given a place in the memory of a culture. Also offered as CAS HI 221. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition  to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 397.		

CAS PO 396: Philosophy of Gender and Sexuality
	Analyzes notions of gender and sexuality. Questions include: Are gender and sexual identity natural, or are they social constructions? How are they related to love and desire? Also offered as CAS PH 256.		

CAS PO 425: Seminar: State Building and Failure in the Developing World
	Considers the political significance of failed and fragile states in the developing world in the post-9/11  era. Students analyze historical patterns of state formation and its relevance in contemporary society. Also  offered as CAS SO 439.		

CAS PO 491: Directed Study in Political Science
           			Directed study conducted under the supervision of a faculty member in Political Science. 		

CAS PO 492: Directed Study in Political Science
           			Directed study conducted under the supervision of a faculty member in Political Science. 		

CAS PO 493: Independent Work in Political Science
	Open to upper division concentrators. Students have a minimum GPA of 3.2 with a 3.4 in the major plus the ability to do independent work in the judgment of the major faculty advisor. This course  cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS  PO 401.		

CAS PO 494: Independent Work in Political Science
	Open to upper division concentrators. Students have a minimum GPA of 3.2 with a 3.4 in the major plus the ability to do independent work in the judgement of the major faculty advisor. This course  cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS  PO 402. 		

CAS PO 495: Theories of Political Society
	An examination of recent political accounts of "modernity," that is, of the unique character of advanced  industrial cultures. Readings include classic authors (Rousseau, Marx, Freud, Weber) and contemporary  writers (Habermas, MacIntyre, Lyotard, Toulmin). Also offered as CAS PH 453.		

CAS PO 496: Legal Philosophy
           			A critical examination of ideas about the nature of law, duties of obedience and resistance, and legal   interpretation, with an emphasis on modern theories. Because this course meets with a Law School course,   its schedule follows the Law School's standard academic calendar. Also meets with CAS PH 455.		

CAS PO 497: Crime and Punishment: Philosophical Perspectives
           			Study of fundamental issues in criminal law, including the theory and definition of crime; economic,  utilitarian, and retributivist justifications of punishment; exculpating circumstances; the death penalty; and  the relationship between law and politics. Also offered as CAS PH 458.		

CAS PO 498: Marx and Marxism
           			Philosophical foundation of Marxism and its development. Critical study of Marx's writings stressing  questions of philosophy, political economy, science, and history. Emphasis on Marx's theory of relation of  praxis to consciousness. Later (including contemporary) Marxists and critics. Also offered as CAS PH 418.		

CAS PO 499: Political and Legal Philosophy
           			Examination of the individual's responsibilities under law, specifically of the idea that there is a general   moral obligation to obey the law, including unjust law, and the contrasting idea of civil disobedience-- the   possibility of morally justified resistance to law. Also offered as CAS PH 459.		

CAS PO 500: The Politics of Education
	Overview of the origins of public schooling, the purpose of public education, and controversial educational  policies and research. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title  that was previously numbered CAS PO 548.		

CAS PO 502: Political Analysis: A Primer
	The logic and methods of empirical analysis in political science. Includes discussion of experimental, observational, ethnographic, and mass survey research  designs. Recommended for students pursuing Honors reserach or considering graduate work in  political science.		

CAS PO 503: The U.S. in the Middle East
           			Meets with CAS IR 503. Examines the historical development and present status of the United  States' association with the Middle East: American commercial, economic, political, military, and  humanitarian interests in the area and their interaction. This course cannot be taken for credit in  addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 570.		

CAS PO 504: Public Policy Analysis: Issues, Concepts, and Tools
           			The analytical foundations of public policy analysis and the limitations on "rational" policy-making. An  analysis of several controversial public policies (e.g., regulating the economy, immigration, health care  reform) which may vary from year to year. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course  with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 641.		

CAS PO 506: American Politics and the Separation of Powers
           			Examines inter-institutional dynamics in the American system of separated powers. Explicit focus on the  relationships between the president, Congress, and judiciary, and on the strategies each employs to affect  political outputs. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that  was previously numbered CAS PO 510.		

CAS PO 507: Development of American Constitutional Law
           			A survey of the development of constitutional law and the exercise of power by the U.S. Supreme Court.  The course is drawn entirely from decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court and the principal theme is the  development of national constitutions and power. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 513.		

CAS PO 508: The Judiciary and Civil Liberties
	First Amendment rights of speech, press, assembly, religion; rights of defendants in criminal cases; and  the constitutional protection of racial minorities. Supreme Court decision-making processes and modes of  compliance with its decisions are also considered. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 514.		

CAS PO 511: American Electoral Behavior
	The scientific study of elections and political participation with emphasis on voting in U.S. presidential elections. Topics include partisanship, ideology, voter turnout, political participation, campaign organization and strategy, and the effects of campaigns on voters. This course cannot be taken for credit  in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 524.		

CAS PO 513: Interest Groups, Public Opinion, and the Policy Process
	Focuses on public opinion and interest group activities as they affect the policy-making process  in the United States. Attention is paid to the role of the media, of lobbying, of litigation, and of  the electoral process.  This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the  same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 544.		

CAS PO 515: American Politics and Use of Force
           			Examines how domestic politics drive the use of force in the postwar United States. Explores how  Congress, courts, interest groups, media, and public opinion define Presidential action in times of crisis, as  well as the kinds of crises that evoke action. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 518.		

CAS PO 516: Gender and Politics
	Analyzes the development of female citizenship in the United States since the 19th Amendment,  guaranteeing women's suffrage. Inequalities based on sex and sexuality, and the political and legal  attempts to address these issues are discussed.		

CAS PO 517: Urban Politics and Policy
	Explores the impact of American urban politics on the implementation of local policy. Topics include  deindustrialization, white flight, neighborhood effects, housing policy, schools, regionalism, and factors  that constrain policy-making capacities.		

CAS PO 520: Readings in Public Policy
	Topic for Fall 2014: The Future of Public Policies. Explores the future of major public policy topics (e.g.,  food, privacy, property, higher education, genetic technology, human migration, crime and punishment,  arts, democratic nation building, environment and climate change, urban planning, employment,  retirement) by constructing and analyzing  contrasting policy possibilities.		

CAS PO 524: Governance
	What is good governance, and what are its causes and effects? These questions, at the heart of political  science since Aristotle, are addressed empirically through cross-national data and case studies. This course  cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the title "Democratic Governance" that was  previously numbered CAS PO 521.		

CAS PO 525: Bureaucracy and Governance: A Comparative Inquiry
CAS PO 526: Global Justice
	Meets with CAS IR 523. Charts the course of human development over history and inquires why the quality  of life varies so dramatically in the world today. Geographic, economic, cultural, and political factors are  explored. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was  previously numbered CAS PO 523.		

CAS PO 528: Seminar: The Political Economy of Advanced Industrialized Societies
           			Meets with GRS IR 723. Surveys forces contributing to national differences in social and economic policy;  identifies current challenges to state sovereignty, such as globalization and immigration; and examines  how nations from different welfare state regimes are coping with these threats to the nation state. This  course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS PO 621.		

CAS PO 529: Globalization and Contemporary Capitalism in Advanced Industrialized Nations
	Meets with CAS IR 596. How has globalization affected national sovereignty and control? Competing   hypotheses are examined with specific reference to the internationalization of trade and the financial   markets, and its impact on the three postwar models of capitalism. This course cannot be taken for credit  in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 538.		

CAS PO 533: Globalization of Nationalism
	This course focuses on the problem of nationalism, distinguishing types, examining origins, and analyzing  political, social, and economic implications. Emphasis in Spring 2014 is on nationalism's spread into  eastern and southern Asia, specifically, the countries of Japan, China, and India.		

CAS PO 535: European Integration
	Meets with CAS IR 550. Assesses the meaning of "European Union" in its domestic, foreign policy, and  economic dimensions. To understand the opportunities and limits of cooperation and conflict, relevant  issue areas of European Community policy are discussed from a functionalist and realist perspective. This  course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS PO 525.		

CAS PO 536: Social Europe: Identity, Citizenship, and the Welfare State
           			Meets with CAS IR 551. The past, present and future of "social Europe." Impact of European  economic and political integration on national identities, cultures, politics, and citizenship; EU  policies affecting these social constructions; and changes over time in the welfare state. This  course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS PO 528.		

CAS PO 539: Topics in European Politics and Culture
           			Meets with CAS IR 452. Explores European politics through the lens of culture, using materials from  literature, film, and the social sciences, including live sessions with European writers/artists. Topic for Spring 2013: Critical Moments and Memory in Europe. Includes the shadows cast by the Holocaust, the  Spanish Civil War, the Cold War, and post-Communist transitions, as well as economic dislocations and  immigrations.  This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that  was previously numbered CAS PO 584.		

CAS PO 541: Seminar on European Politics
	Selected topics in European Politics: the political development of European states, the changing dynamics   of European party systems, the rise of the Radical Right, the politics of immigration, and questions of   nationalism, European identity and the future of the European Union. This course cannot be taken for  credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 561.		

CAS PO 542: Immigration: Politics and Policy
           			Immigration has become a subject of much debate and controversy in democratic polities. This course explores the politics, economics, and social consequences of immigration policies across a number of countries, including European states and the United States.		

CAS PO 544: Nordic Europe
	Meets with CAS IR 552. A brief historical overview of the region from the Viking Age to the emergence of   the modern states is followed by study of the Nordic countries with respect to the European Union, security   arrangements, and assistance to the developing world. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition  to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 529.		

CAS PO 548: Political Economy of China
	Meets with CAS IR 527. How did China implement economic reform? What were the progresses  and limitations? How is China's political-economic development influencing the global system?  Discussions are conducted in a comparative perspective. Countries of reference include Japan and  India. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was  previously numbered CAS PO 527.		

CAS PO 549: Problems and Issues in Post-Mao China
           			Meets with CAS IR 585.  An in-depth examination of politics in post-Mao China, this course  focuses on several critical issues, uses various conceptual frameworks to try to understand why  the reform process broke down and examines prospects for the future. This course cannot be  taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO  558.		

CAS PO 550: The State and Public Purpose in Asia
           			Meets with CAS IR 520. Explores how noncommunist Asian governments have attempted to  advance public purpose, and how organizational factors in countries' governments affect their  ability to do so. These questions are addressed in a comparative framework, considering theory  and cases. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that  was previously numbered CAS PO 562.		

CAS PO 552: Japan in International Politics
	Meets with CAS IR 579. International and domestic influences on Japan's international behavior in the past  as a predictor of Japan's future role in international politics. Covers Japan's role in the Cold War, post-war  Asia, and the management of the global economy. Examines viability of the post-Cold War U.S.-Japan  relationship. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was  previously numbered CAS PO 579.		

CAS PO 553: Taiwan: Politics and Transformation
	Meets with CAS IR 582. Examines Taiwan's history, economic development, ethnic identity,  democratization, and its controversial position in international politics as a key to understanding questions  of political economy, democratic transition, and East Asian security. This course cannot be taken for credit  in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 582.		

CAS PO 554: Conflict and Cooperation in Asia
	Meets with CAS IR 501. Investigates patterns of conflict and cooperation in South and East Asia  surrounding issues ranging from water resources and health to borders and war. Analyzes how  such issues contribute to instability in the region, as well as methods of cooperation. This course  cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS PO 530.		

CAS PO 556: Islam in Middle East Politics
	Meets with CAS IR 509. Analysis of Islam in the classical and popular forms; examination of the  role of the Muslim religion in the internal politics of the modern Middle East, especially Iran,  Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Lebanon, Syria, Iraq, and Libya; their interrelationships and their  attitudes toward the West.  This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with  the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 573.		

CAS PO 557: The Political Economy of National Security
	(Meets with GRS IR 610.) A seminar considering the relationship between economics and national security.  The principal theme is the way economic factors fundamentally influence the national security of states,  and the way those factors shape and constrain the strategies chosen to pursue that security.		

CAS PO 558: War and Society in the Modern Age
	This course takes a state-oriented approach to understanding war in the modern age (as distinct from  focusing on segments of the armed forces). How states fight wars and how changes in warfare affect the  relationship between state and society.		

CAS PO 561: Latin American Political Parties
	Meets with CAS IR 502. Parties and party systems of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru,  and Venezuela. Historical origins and labor incorporation. Populist, working-class, and hegemonic parties.  Market reform and party system transformation or collapse. Ethnic parties, clientelism, rise of a new Left.  This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS PO 509.		

CAS PO 562: Political Economy of Latin America
	(Meets with CAS IR 590.) Historical and contemporary issues in Latin American political economy. Uses case  studies and cross-regional comparisons to assess competing explanations. Analyzes the current political  and economic situation facing Latin America in its quest for economic growth and development. This  course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 550.		

CAS PO 564: Latin American Politics
	Meets with CAS IR 567. The nature and evolution of politics in the region, with emphasis on  twentieth-century patterns in specific countries. Considers the physical, historical, social, and  economic constraints that have affected political development and the various explanations  available to advance our understanding. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 567.		

CAS PO 565: U.S.-Latin American Relations
	Meets with CAS IR 568. The international context within which Latin American countries operate, with  primary emphasis on U.S. policy toward the region. Includes historical overview, the policymaking process  itself, and case studies of specific policy issues. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 568.		

CAS PO 566: Conflict and Conflict Resolution in Latin America
           			Meets with CAS IR 411. Examines a range of historical and contemporary conflicts and wars in Latin  America, both internal and regional, examining their causes and consequences, and the most important  factors that explain how they were resolved or why they persist. This course cannot be taken for credit in  addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 411.		

CAS PO 567: Democracy in Latin America and Its Challenges
	 Meets with CAS IR 566. Provides an overview of democracy's achievements and challenges in Latin  America. Draws comparisons between stable and unstable democracies in the region, and analyzes the  reasons for, and implications of, these differences. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 580.		

CAS PO 570: Politics and Society in North Africa and the Middle East
           			Meets with CAS IR 569. An investigation of contemporary North Africa and the Middle East, with  emphasis on current socioeconomic and political trends and tensions. This course cannot be  taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO  560.		

CAS PO 571: Government and Politics of Contemporary Africa
	Meets with CAS IR 534. Analysis of independent black Africa; factors of continuity and change in modern  Africa, problems of political order, ambiguities of independence. Case studies of individual countries  selected for additional emphasis on specific issues and problems of the developing countries. This course  cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS  PO 565.		

CAS PO 575: Decision Making in U.S. Foreign Policy
	Examination of international crises from the perspective of the individual decision maker. Critical  analysis and testing of the theoretical frameworks used to explain how states and statesmen  behave in a crisis situation. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with  the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 576.		

CAS PO 576: The Foreign Policy of the People's Republic of China
	Meets with CAS IR 577. Explores China's perception of its role in the world, its evolution from a regional to  a world power, and its security and economic relationships within the international system. Relationships  with the superpowers, Third World, and world economy, focusing on technology and capital transfers. This  course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS PO 578.		

CAS PO 578: The United States as a World Power
           			Meets with GRS HI 859. The course material is organized along a debate format. Although the course is  primarily concerned with twentieth-century U.S. foreign policy, attention is also given to eighteenth- and  nineteenth-century issues. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same  title that was previously numbered CAS PO 674.		

CAS PO 579: Political Biography
	Political biographies and memoir literature used to evaluate twentieth-century international relations and  statecraft. Topics vary but may include biographical literature related to World War II, the Cold War, and  Third World political leaders. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same  title that was previously numbered CAS PO 676.		

CAS PO 582: North Atlantic/European Security Issues
	Meets with CAS IR 589. Examination of the post Cold War security environment in the North  Atlantic and greater European context. Exploration of threats to security, mechanisms in place  and emerging (NATO, CSCE, CFE, WEU), and challenges posed by changes since fall 1989. This  course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS PO 531.		

CAS PO 583: Gender and War
	(Meets with CAS IR 518 and WS 345.) Examines gender constructions in world politics. Topics include gender biases in international relations theories, female and males roles in war, and rape as an instrument of warfare. Also assesses roles of women as leaders, actors, and objects of foreign policy.  		

CAS PO 586: Science Fiction and World Politics
	Uses science fiction literature as a starting point for an analysis of themes that concern scholars of present  international relations, and those interested in imagining and making alternative political futures. Topics  include causes of war, distribution of wealth and power, and consequences of nationalism. This course  cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS  PO 670.		

CAS PO 589: Religion and International Relations
           			(Meets with CAS IR 561 and CAS RN 561.)  Explores the role of religion in contemporary international  relations in the context of questions about the common core of modernity. Reviews scholarly and policy  literature, and case studies, in order to elucidate religion's intellectual and operational diversity in  international relations.		

CAS PO 591: Seminar in Political Philosophy
           			An in-depth study of a major political philosopher, historical period, or topic in political philosophy. Topic for 2013/2014: TBA. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course by the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 691.		

CAS PO 592: Enlightenment and Its Critics
	Meets with CAS HI 514 and PH 412. Explores how eighteenth-century criticisms of the Enlightenment have  been taken up by twentieth-century thinkers such as Heidegger, Horkheimer, Adorno, Gadamer, and  Foucault; discusses recent defenses of Enlightenment ideals of reason, critique, and autonomy by  Habermas and others.  This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title  that was previously numbered CAS PO 693.		

CAS PS 101: General Psychology
	Basic introduction to field of psychology; topics include theories and findings governing learning, memory, perception, development, personality, social and abnormal psychology. Three hours large lecture and one hour discussion section or three hours of small lecture class with no discussion sections. Requirements vary. Students are required to participate as subjects in psychology studies. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS PS 211: Introduction to Experimental Design in Psychology
           			Introduction to logic and methodology of univariate statistics with relevance to psychology. Topics include descriptive statistics, data representation, statistical inference, probability and significance, correlation and  regression, and non parametric analyses. Does not count toward nine principal course requirement for majors.		

CAS PS 222: Perception and Behavior
           			Why do things look as they do? This question is examined with particular emphasis on experiments that clarify the relative contributions of nature and nurture, and structural and experiential factors. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS PS 231: Physiological Psychology
           			Analysis of the central nervous system: information processing and decision making; emphasis on physiological aspects of perception, attention, learning, and memory. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS PS 234: Psychology of Learning
           			Survey of theory and techniques in learning and their applications in different settings. Topics include   problem solving, memory, reward and punishment, and reinforcement schedules as studied in animals, normal classrooms, and remedial settings. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. Also offered as  CAS NE 234.		

CAS PS 241: Developmental Psychology
           			Students may elect either CAS PS 241 or PS 243, but not both. Critical review of research and theories pertaining to intellectual and social development of infants and children. Role of early experiences and biological factors in later formation of personality, intellectual and motivational behaviors; theories include Erikson, Piaget, and Freud. Term paper may be required. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS PS 243: Life Span Developmental Psychology in Health and Illness
           			Students may elect either CAS PS 241 or PS 243, but not both. Psychological aspects of  human growth, development, and adaptation throughout the life span, with an emphasis  on responses to illness during the various developmental stages. 		

CAS PS 251: Psychology of Personality: Theories and Application
           			Students may elect either CAS PS 251 or PS 252, but not both. The historical development of personality theories and their application to social and clinical concerns are emphasized. Classic theories of personality (e.g., psychoanalytic, behavioral, trait, humanistic, cognitive, and social roles) are explored and evaluated through lectures, readings, case materials, and films. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS PS 261: Social Psychology
           			Provides an understanding of how behavior, feelings, and thoughts of  individuals are influenced and determined by characteristics of the  situation. Topics: attraction, attitudes, prejudice, social roles, aggression,  person perception, and groups. Readings cover theories, experimental  research, and application. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS PS 322: Experimental Psychology: Physiological
           			Laboratory course in physiological psychology. Emphasis on neuroanatomical mechanisms involved in  behavior. Experiments are performed on rodents and resulting data are analyzed. Research reports  required.		

CAS PS 323: Experimental Psychology: Learning
           			Methodology, results, and interpretation of respondent and operant conditioning. Experimental analyses of   selected topics in learning within the context of reinforcement theory. Required reports of instructor- planned and student-planned experiments using a virtual rat. Course includes two hours of lecture and   two hours of laboratory work a week. Also offered as CAS NE 323.		

CAS PS 324: Experimental Psychology: Developmental
           			Human development selected for experimental study; live subjects. Class discussion and practical experience with observational, assessment, and experimental techniques, and review of statistical concepts. Focus varies. Independent research and paper required. Courses include two hours of lecture and two hours of laboratory work a week. Two 2-hour lectures per week. 		

CAS PS 325: Experimental Psychology: Personality
           			Systematic approaches to the study of personality. Experimental and observational investigations of selected aspects of personality. Demonstration of experimental procedures; student participation in laboratory and field studies. Two hours of lecture and two hours of laboratory work a week.		

CAS PS 326: Experimental Psychology: Social
           			Supervised experience in formulating, carrying out, interpreting, and  critically evaluating social-psychological research. Students conduct  research on such topics as attraction, impressions and stereotypes,  helping, aggression, conflict, etc. Variety of research techniques  examined. Two hours of lecture and two hours of laboratory work a week.		

CAS PS 332: Behavioral Medicine
           			Examines applications from the social and behavioral sciences and allied health professions as they are integrated in the practice of traditional medicine. Examples of interventional strategies, treatments, and procedures, including biofeedback and hypnosis.  		

CAS PS 333: Drugs and Behavior
           			Comprehensive survey of drug influences on behavior; introduces a neuroscience approach to behavior.  Several classes of drugs discussed, including abused and addictive substances and psychoactive and therapeutic agents. Also offered as CAS NE 333.		

CAS PS 336: Introduction to Cognitive Psychology
           			Provides an introduction to basic topics and research issues relevant to cognitive psychology. Emphasis placed on understanding how we perceive, attend, and remember information. Related topics include language, problem solving, and intelligence. 		

CAS PS 337: Memory Systems of the Brain
           			Survey of investigations into the brain systems and neurobiological mechanisms of memory. Includes  experimental studies of amnesia in humans and experimental models of amnesia in animals. Focus on  evidence for multiple forms of memory and distinct brain systems that mediate them. Also offered as CAS  NE 337.		

CAS PS 338: Neuropsychology
           			Survey of theoretical aspects and major empirical findings in human neuropsychology, including memory, language, spatial function, attention, emotion, and abstract thought. Emphasis is on the relation between brain disorders (resulting from head injury, stroke, degenerative disease, etc.) and abnormal behavior. Also offered as CAS NE 338.		

CAS PS 371: Abnormal Psychology
           			Attention to the wide range of ways in which personality may become disordered; emphasis on normal behavior development as highlighted by psychopathology. Evidence and theories concerning problems of treatment also considered.		

CAS PS 401: Senior Independent Work
           			Supervised independent research in some area of psychology.		

CAS PS 402: Senior Independent Work
           			Supervised independent research in some area of psychology.		

CAS PS 434: Principles of Behavior Modification
           			A survey of contemporary behavioral intervention and therapy procedures as they have been applied in various settings. Methods of evaluating the effectiveness of these procedures are stressed. Open to nonconcentatrators.		

CAS PS 471: Seminar: Psychopathology
           			Selected clinical syndromes; neuroses, character disorders, and schizophrenia in children or adults. Selected clinical issues such as sleep and dreaming, psychosomatic illness, attachment and loss, and depression. 		

CAS PS 472: Family Violence: Theories and Research
           			Studies family violence, particularly child and spouse abuse. Students learn various theories while examining epidemiologic, cross-cultural, and clinical data. Through demonstrations, students also learn basic preventative and intervention techniques. 		

CAS PS 473: Introduction to Clinical Psychology
           			Introduction to current diagnostic and treatment techniques in clinical psychology from empirical, applied, and theoretical perspectives. Topics covered include clinical interviewing, psychological testing, and a comparison of humanistic, analytic, and systems approaches to therapy.   		

CAS PS 475: Counseling: Theory and Listening Techniques
           			Introduces the theoretical underpinnings of counseling and builds students' listening skills. Extensive role-playing using audio and videotapes.		

CAS PS 491: Directed Study in Psychology
           			Individual instruction and directed research in a selected topic.		

CAS PS 492: Directed Study in Psychology
           			Individual instruction and directed research in a selected topic.		

CAS PS 504: Trends in Contemporary Psychology
           			Various contemporary trends in psychology presented. Content varies: consult  department for emphasis and topics.		

CAS PS 528: Human Brain Mapping
           			Localization in the brain of human mental functions and the study of their neural mechanisms. Topics  include methods (fMRI, PET, TMS, ERP), memory, perception, recognition, attention, and executive  processes. Also offered as CAS NE 528.		

CAS PS 529: Neuroplasticity: Enabling the Brain to Heal Itself
           			Review of neurophysiological mechanisms underlying the astounding reorganizational capacity of the  brain. Critical examination of ways to promote this plasticity: early childhood experiences, positive  thinking, meditation, exercise, visualization, physical therapy, computerized re-training, and sensory and  motor prostheses. Also offered as CAS NE 529.		

CAS PS 530: Neural Models of Memory Function
           			Computational models of neurobiological mechanisms for memory function and spatial navigation, with a  particular emphasis on cellular and circuit models of the hippocampus and related cortical structures. Also  offered as CAS NE 530.		

CAS PS 541: Social Development
           			An examination of the development of social cognition and competence. Topics include: innate and early-emerging social knowledge, attachment, moral development and cooperation, theory of mind, group biases, and social learning.		

CAS PS 544: Developmental Neuropsychology
CAS PS 561: The Psychology of Poverty, Wealth, and Economic Inequality
	Explores the impact of poverty, wealth, and economic inequality on individuals, families, and communities  and considers how individuals think about, explain, and experience poverty, wealth, and economic  inequality. Experimental, survey, interview, and epidemiological research considered.		

CAS PS 572: Psychology of Women
           			Consideration of research topics in the psychology of women. Topics covered include various stages in the  life cycle, women's work and family lives, aspects of victimization, and women's position in the larger  society.		

CAS PY 100: Physics of the Twentieth Century and Beyond
           			A historical survey of modern physics, focusing on quantum mechanics and relativity as applied to the microworld (subatomic physics) and the macroworld (the early universe). Covers exotic phenomena from quarks to quasars, from neutrinos to neutron stars. For non-science majors. Carries natural science divisional credit (without lab) in CAS.  		

CAS PY 103: Cinema Physica
	Conceptual introduction to physical law as portrayed in film. Quantitative understanding using simple estimates, elementary physics, and dimensional analysis. Kinematics; forces; conservation laws; heat and temperature; atoms, molecules and materials. Sample films: Speed;  Armageddon; Independence Day; X-Men; The Sixth Sense; Contact. Carries natural science divisional credit (with lab) in CAS. 		

CAS PY 105: Elementary Physics 1
	The CAS PY 105/106 sequence satisfies premedical requirements; presupposes knowledge of algebra and  trigonometry.  Principles of classical and modern physics, mechanics, conservation laws, and heat. Students  must register for three sections: a lecture section, a discussion section, and a laboratory section. Carries  natural science  divisional credit (with lab) in CAS.		

CAS PY 106: Elementary Physics 2
           			The CAS PY 105/106 sequence satisfies premedical requirements; presupposes knowledge of algebra and  trigonometry.  Principles of classical and modern physics; electricity and magnetism, waves, optics, light,  atomic and nuclear physics. Students must register for three sections: a lecture section, discussion section,  and laboratory section. Carries natural science divisional credit (with lab) in CAS.		

CAS PY 107: Physics of Food/Cooking
	Physical science concepts of thermal physics, and soft matter physics such as phase transitions, gelation,  viscosity, elasticity illustrated via cooking. Labs and demos using molecular gastronomy methods of sous-vide cooking, pressure cooking, making desserts, cheese, emulsions, foams, gels, ice creams. Carries  natural science divisional credit (with lab) in CAS.		

CAS PY 192: Directed Study in Physics
           			For freshman and sophomore physics majors.		

CAS PY 195: Freshman Seminar for Physicists
           			Seminar where freshman physics majors learn successful strategies for studying physics and become familiar with BU's policies, procedures, resources, and extracurricular activities. Exploration of research and career opportunities through invited speakers, book discussions, and laboratory tours.		

CAS PY 211: General Physics
           			For premedical students who seek a more analytical course than CAS PY 105/106, and for science majors and engineers. Basic principles of physics emphasizing Newtonian  mechanics, conservation laws, and thermal physics. Lectures, discussion, and laboratory. Carries natural science divisional credit (with lab) in CAS.		

CAS PY 212: General Physics
           			For premedical students who seek a more analytical course than CAS PY 105/106, and for science majors and engineers. Basic principles of physics emphasizing electricity,  magnetism, and geometrical optics. Lectures, discussion, and laboratory. Carries natural science divisional credit (with lab) in CAS. 		

CAS PY 231: The Physics in Music
           			An introduction to musical acoustics, which covers vibrations and waves in musical systems, intervals and the construction of musical scales, tuning and temperament, the percussion instruments, the piano, the string, woodwind and brass instruments, room acoustics, and the human ear and psychoacoustical phenomena important to musical performance. Some aspects of electronic music are also discussed. Carries natural science divisional credit (with lab) in CAS. 		

CAS PY 241: Principles of General Physics 1
           			Calculus-based introduction to principles and methods of physics. Mechanics, heat, light, electricity and magnetism, atomic and nuclear physics, and relativity are treated. Topics relevant to medical science are emphasized. Ideal for premedical students. Lectures, discussions, and laboratory. Carries natural science divisional credit (with lab) in CAS. 		

CAS PY 242: Principles of General Physics 2
           			Calculus-based introduction to principles and methods of physics. Mechanics, heat, light, electricity and magnetism, atomic and nuclear physics, and relativity are treated. Topics relevant to medical science are emphasized. Ideal for premedical students. Lectures, discussions, and laboratory. Carries natural science divisional credit (with lab) in CAS. 		

CAS PY 251: Principles of Physics 1
           			Introduction to mechanics, conservation laws, heat, and thermodynamics. Primarily for physics,  mathematics, and astronomy majors, but open to other students with a strong background in  mathematics. Carries natural science divisional credit (with lab) in CAS. 		

CAS PY 252: Principles of Physics 2
           			Introduction to electromagnetic radiation and geometrical optics. Primarily for physics, mathematics, and  astronomy majors, but open to other students with a strong background in mathematics. Carries natural  science divisional credit (with lab) in CAS.		

CAS PY 313: Waves and Modern Physics
		Waves and physical optics, relativistic mechanics, experimental foundations of quantum mechanics, atomic structure, physics of molecules and solids, atomic nuclei and elementary particles. Along with CAS PY 211, 212, PY 313 completes a three-semester introductory sequence primarily intended for students of engineering. 		

CAS PY 371: Electronics for Scientists
           			A survey of practical electronics for all College of Arts and Sciences science students wishing to gain a working knowledge of electronic instrumentation, and in particular, its construction. Two four-hour laboratory-lecture sessions per week.		

CAS PY 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS PY 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS PY 405: Electromagnetic Fields and Waves I
           			Vector analysis; Gauss's law; electric field intensity; energy and potential; conductors, dielectrics, and capacitance; Poisson's and Laplace's equations; steady magnetic fields;		

CAS PY 406: Electromagnetic Fields and Waves II
           			Maxwell's equations; electromagnetic waves in vacuum and matter; reflection and refraction; diffraction and interference; coherence; special theory of relativity.		

CAS PY 408: Intermediate Mechanics
           			Dynamics of particles and rigid bodies. Newtonian mechanics. Oscillatory motion and motion under a central force. Lagrangian and Hamiltonian dynamics. Coupled oscillations, normal modes, and continuum mechanics. Longitudinal and transverse mechanical waves.		

CAS PY 410: Statistical Thermodynamics
           			The laws of themodynamics, statistical basis of thermodynamics, ensemble theory, equilibrium statistical mechanics and its application to physical systems of interest, irreversibility, transport, and the approach to equilibrium. 		

CAS PY 421: Introduction to Computational Physics
           			Undergraduate-level introduction to computer programming and methods used to formulate and solve physics problems on the computer. Also touches on more advanced topics such as parallel computing and graphical visualization.		

CAS PY 451: Quantum Physics 1
           			Uncertainty principle; Schrödinger wave equation and applications; operators; hermitian operators and  unitary transformations; harmonic oscillator; angular momentum and spin; hydrogen atom.		

CAS PY 482: Undergraduate Physics Seminar
	Intended primarily for upper-level physics students but open to others with consent of the instructor. In-depth examination at an undergraduate level of an area of current physics research. Topics cover areas of contemporary interest and vary from year to year; possible areas include general relativity, particle physics, biophysics, and superconductivity. (CAS PY 482 may be taken multiple times for credit.)		

CAS PY 491: Directed Study or Research in Physics
           			Intensive study of one aspect of physics under the supervision of a faculty member.		

CAS PY 492: Directed Study or Research in Physics
           			Intensive study of one aspect of physics under the supervision of a faculty member.		

CAS PY 501: Mathematical Physics
		Introduction to complex variables and residue calculus, asymptotic methods, and conformal mapping; integral transforms; ordinary and partial differential equations; non-linear equations; integral equations. 		

CAS PY 502: Computational Physics
		Fundamental methods of computational physics and applications; numerical algorithms; linear algebra, differential equations; computer simulation; vectorization, parallelism, and optimization. Examples and projects on scientific applications. 		

CAS PY 511: Quantum Mechanics I
		General theory of quantum mechanics, including the Schrodinger, Heisenberg, and interaction pictures. The path integral formulation. Angular momentum: orbital and spin angular momentum, addition of angular momenta, Wigner-Eckart theorem. Scattering theory: time-independent, partial waves and phase shift, identical particles, time dependent, and propagators. 		

CAS PY 512: Quantum Mechanics II
CAS PY 541: Statistical Mechanics I
		Probability theory. Ensembles. Steepest descent methods. Paramagnetism, ideal gas, Einstein model, adsorption isotherms. Thermodynamics, Maxwell relations, heat capacity. Bose and Fermi gases. Electrons in metals, white dwarf stars, black-body radiation, phonons, Bose-Einstein condensation. Interacting systems, virial expansion, Van der Waals gas. Phase transitions: mean-field theories, spin systems. 		

CAS PY 542: Statistical Mechanics II
		Continuation of CAS PY 541; emphasis on applications. Phase transitions: thermodynamic theory of phase transitions, mean field theories (Landau theory). Fluctuations: equilibrium fluctuations, instabilities, fluctuation dissipation theories. Elementary kinetic theory: mean free path approach, Boltzmann equation. Stochastic mathematics: probability theory, Markoff processes, Gaussian processes. Brownian motion: Langevin equations, Fokker-Planck equation. 		

CAS PY 543: Introduction to Solid State Physics
		An introduction to crystal structure; lattice vibrations; electronic energy bands and Fermi surfaces; semiconductors, conductors, and insulators; superconductivity and magnetism. 		

CAS PY 551: Introduction to Particle Physics
		Fundamental particles and their symmetries. Isospin and flavor. Discrete symmetries. Phenomenology of weak and strong interactions. Introduction to detector techniques.		

CAS PY 571: Introduction to Biological Physics
           			Introduction to biomolecular forces, energy flow, information and thermodynamics in biological systems. Nucleic acid, protein, and biomembrane structure. Mechanisms of transport and signaling in biological membranes. Biophysical techniques including spectroscopy. Emphasis on the physical principles  underlying biological structure and function.		

CAS PY 581: Advanced Laboratory
           			Classical experiments in atomic and nuclear physics, development of new experiments, basic research projects. Experiments include magnetic resonance, nuclear-decay studies, Zeeman effect, holography, black-body radiation, X-ray diffraction, Mössbauer studies, and flux quantization, positron annihilation.		

CAS PY 681: Electronics for Scientists
		A survey of practical electronics for all science students who wish to gain a working knowledge of electronic instrumentation and, in particular, its construction. Two four-hour laboratory-lecture sessions per week. 		

CAS RN 100: Introduction to Religion
	Religion matters. It makes meaning and provides structure to life, addressing fundamental questions  about body, spirit, community, and time. But what is it? How does it work in our world? This course  explores religion in ritual, philosophical, experiential, and ethical dimensions. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS RN 101: The Bible
	Introductory study of Jewish and Christian scriptures; connections between biblical and related ancient  cultures; biblical genres (epic narrative, law, prophecy, poetry, historiography, gospels, letters, apocalypse)  and their literary character, major classical and modern strategies of reading. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS RN 102: Sacred Journeys
	An introduction to the comparative study of religion through the theme of the sacred journey/religious  quest in Buddhist, Christian, Hindu, and popular literature. Topics include heroic, romantic, and/or  mystical quests; voyages to the underworld; apocalyptic and post-apocalyptic journeys. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS RN 103: Religions of the World: Eastern
	Study of Hinduism, Buddhism, Taoism, Confucianism, and Shinto. Focus on the world view of each tradition and the historical development of that world view. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS RN 104: Religions of the World: Western
	Islam, Christianity, and Judaism in historical and cultural context, origins to the present. Examines diversity  of practices, belief systems, and social structures within these religions. Also addresses debates within and  between communities as well as contemporary concerns.Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS RN 106: Death and Immortality
	Examines death as religious traditions have attempted to accept, defeat, deny, or transcend it. Do we have souls? Do they reincarnate? Other topics include cremation, ancestor worship, apocalypse, alchemy, AIDS, near-death experiences, otherworld cosmologies. 		

CAS RN 111: Multireligious America
	Introduction to American religions, including Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Hinduism, and Buddhism, with an emphasis on developments after 1965, when new legislation opened up immigration and dramatically altered the American religious landscape.  Exploration of interreligious interactions: conflict, cooperation, and creolization. 		

CAS RN 121: Religion in America
	Religion in American history from early European encounters with indigenous peoples to the pluralistic  present. Focus on interrelationship of religious beliefs and practices with intellectual, social, political, and  cultural life in America. Readings may include Jefferson, Vivekananda, Heschel, King, Daly.		

CAS RN 200: Theoretical Approaches to the Study of Religion
           			Origins and history of the academic study of religion. Different constructions of religion as an object of  study and the methods that arise from them. The role of the humanities and social sciences in  understanding religion's place in history and contemporary experience.		

CAS RN 202: From Jesus to Christ: The Origins of Christianity
	Places Jesus of Nazareth in his contemporary religious and social context of Second Temple Judaism; and accounts for the origins and growth of Christian life, belief, and spirituality up to the second century, as reflected in the writings of that period. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.   		

CAS RN 203: Religion and Film
	How do visual media influence spiritual sentiments, social prejudices, erotic boundaries, faith, and  secularism? How does religion regulate the impact of film? This course considers religion on the Hollywood big screen and in video games, animation, and student cinema.		

CAS RN 208: Sacred and Secular Power in Christianity and Islam
	Explores the relationship between sacred and secular power within the Christian and Islamic traditions,  with a focus on how their foundational texts and earliest communities established models for negotiating  the porous boundary between the sacred and the secular. Also offered as CAS HI 213.		

CAS RN 209: Religion, Health, and Medicine
	How religious and moral narratives inform approaches to biomedicine from the nineteenth century to the  present, including understandings of disease, illness, health, sexuality, and the body. Topics include  medicine and prayer, alternative medicine, and boundaries between medicine and religion.		

CAS RN 210: Buddhism
	A historical introduction to the major themes of Indian Buddhist thought and practice with special attention to the development of Buddhism in Tibet.		

CAS RN 212: Christianity
	Introduction to Christian thought and practice in a world context, origins to present. Topics include sin, salvation, sacramnent, sacred text, bodies and souls, community, authority and the individual, Christians and non-Christians, and the challenge of modernity.  		

CAS RN 213: Hinduism
	Introduction to the Hindu tradition. Ritual and philosophy of the Vedas and Upanishads, yoga in the Bhagavad Gita, gods and goddesses in Hindu mythology, "popular" aspects of village and temple ritual, and problems of modernization and communalism in postcolonial India.  		

CAS RN 214: Islam
	The rise and spread of Islam from the seventh century to the present; introduction to its central beliefs, institutions, and practices, and its impact on the religious and cultural history of Asia and Africa. Continuity and change in the modern period. 		

CAS RN 215: Japanese Religion
	Introduction to Japanese religions, including Shintoism and Zen, Pure Land, and Tantric Buddhism. Focus on Zen Buddhism and its cultural expression in both geido (way of the arts) and bushdo (way of the warrior). Brief examination of the modern Japanese philosophy of religion. 		

CAS RN 216: Judaism
	Systematic and historical introduction to doctrines, customs, literature, and movements of Judaism; biblical religion and literature; rabbinic life and thought; medieval mysticism and philosophy; modern movement and developments. 		

CAS RN 220: Holy City: Jerusalem in Time, Space, and Imagination
	Transformation of an ordinary ancient city into the holy city of Jews, Christians, and Muslims; and  development of modern Jerusalem, as shaped by British rule, Zionism, and Palestinian nationalism. Jerusalem's past, present, and meanings considered through analyses of religious and secular rhetoric.		

CAS RN 224: Women and Religion
	Explores the roles, images, and experiences of women across a range of religious traditions. Topics key to the study of religion and gender are considered, including religious experience, the gendering of the body, and sources of religious authority.		

CAS RN 241: Topics in Religion & Evil
	Topics vary; may be repeated for credit. Topic for Fall 2014: Evil and Suffering in World Literature. Explores  the philosophical, theological, and ethical issues raised by suffering and evil in Jewish, Buddhist, Hindu,  and Christian literature. Topics include the perils of perfection and the problem of original sin.		

CAS RN 242: Magic, Science, and Religion
	Boundaries and relationships between magic, science, and religion from late antiquity through the    European Enlightenment. Topics include transformation of pagan traditions, distinctions between learned  and popular traditions, Scientific Revolution, and changing assumptions about God and Nature. Also  offered as CAS HI 203. CAS RN 242 carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS RN 243: Shamans and Shamanism
	Shamans in global and theoretical perspectives. The origins and construction of the category of shamanism. Modern theories and debates about the category and the appropriateness of applying it cross-culturally. Also offered as CAS AN 243. 		

CAS RN 245: Religious Thought: The Quest for God and the Good
	Introduction to religious thought, exploring the aims of human life, the place of God in the good life, and the role of contemplation and action in the spiritual quest. Readings from Plato, Aristotle, Bible, Upanishads, Bhagavad Gita, Augustine, Maimonides, Ghazzali. 		

CAS RN 301: Varieties of Early Christianity
           			Surveys the many different and often competing forms of Christianity that arose and flourished in the second to the seventh century, from the "apostolic period" to the Arab conquest in the Middle East.		

CAS RN 308: The Open Heaven: Apocalyptic Literature in Early Judaism and Christianity
	Examines literary and historical roots of "apocalypticism" in early Judaism and Christianity. Attention to  literary genre, symbolism, metaphor, heaven, hell, angelology, demonology, attitudes toward the end of  the world. Examines relationship of apocalypticism to shamanism, mysticism, magic, gnosticism, liturgy.		

CAS RN 309: Theology and Piety in Catholic Christianity
	Roman Catholic Theology, tradition and piety, with additional reference to the Orthodox Churches and to  the Anglican Communion. Dogmas, a sacramental view of reality, a vision of human nature, forms of  devout life. Catholic inspiration in art and music.		

CAS RN 310: The Reformation: Religious Conflict in Early Modern Europe
	Examines religious change in sixteenth- and seventeenth-century Europe, particularly the origins and  causes of the Protestant Reformation, the parallel Catholic Reformation, and the consequent military  conflicts in Germany, France, and the Netherlands. Also offered as CAS HI 209.		

CAS RN 312: Buddhism in America
	The transplantation and transformation of Buddhism in the United States.  Time period ranges from the eighteenth century to the present, but the emphasis is on contemporary developments, including the new Asian immigration, Jewish Buddhism, feminization, and engaged Buddhism.    		

CAS RN 316: Modern Islam
           			Focuses on formations of Islam in colonial and postcolonial periods. How modernist and Islamist thinkers  have negotiated the encounter between tradition and modernity. 		

CAS RN 317: Greek and Roman Religion
	Survey of ancient Greek and Roman religions and their development from earliest beginnings to the eclipse of paganism. Theories and practices of these religions, comparisons with other religions, and relationships to Judaism and Christianity.                                                                                                                 		

CAS RN 318: Religion and American Foreign Policy
	Introduction to the historical roots and contemporary relevance of religion for American foreign policy. Uses conventional chronological approaches to explore key themes that illustrate the role of religion as input and object of American foreign policy. Also offered as CAS IR 318.		

CAS RN 322: History of Judaism
	Major trends in post-biblical Judaism; academy and synagogue; Mishna and Talmud; Babylonian diaspora; medieval poetry, philosophy, and mysticism; codes of law; organization of the Jewish community "in exile", the land of Israel; Jewish, Islamic, and Christian civilizations. 		

CAS RN 323: Classical Jewish Thought
	Basic human and religious issues as they have been understood within the classical Jewish framework of God, the people of Israel, and Torah: good and evil, creation, the relationship of human beings to God and to one another. 		

CAS RN 324: Introduction to Rabbinic Literature
	Chronological exploration of rabbinic Judaism's major documents, using a modern scholarly anthology. The Mishnah; legal and legendary selections from the midrashim and both the Jerusalem and Palestinian Talmuds. Themes: monotheism, sin and atonement, heaven and hell, conceptions of gender, the impact of rabbinic texts on medieval and modern Judaism. 		

CAS RN 325: Jewish Mysticism I: Formative Traditions
	Analysis of the development of Jewish mysticism from the biblical to the early medieval era. Emphasis on  the forms of mysticism--and the texts in which they are embedded--from the rabbinic era. No knowledge  of Hebrew is required.		

CAS RN 326: Jewish Mystical Movements and Modernization, 1492-2000
	Mysticism, spiritual, and social influences. Early modern, modern periods. Focus on "conservative" and "revolutionary" tendencies. 1492 and Iberian, German, Polish Jewry; leadership of "third generation" of  survivors; Christian and Islamic influences; Kulturkampf precipitated by popularization of Kabbala,   antinomianism, Hasidism, magic, science.		

CAS RN 329: Modern Jewish Thought
	Reading Jewish thinkers from the radical Enlightenment to twentieth century existentialism and Zionism,  this course introduces some of the great philosophical debates on religion and secularism, revelation and  scientific reason, and ethnic particularism and universal ethics.		

CAS RN 330: American Jewish Experiences
	Traces the achievements and reputations of Jews, shaped by stereotypes of wealth, power, intellect and  sexuality. Students examine film, literature, art, popular music, attitudes towards Israel, religious practices,  and intermarriage rates for evidence of changing trends.		

CAS RN 334: Dead Sea Scrolls
	Examination of the ancient Hebrew documents discovered in the Judean desert. Their authorship; the theological significance of the Scrolls; their relations to Ancient Judaism and early Christianity; the controversy over their release and publication.  		

CAS RN 337: Gender and Judaism
	Explores the role of gender and sexuality in Judaism and Jewish experience, historically and in the present.  Subjects include constructions of masculinity and femininity, attitudes toward (and uses of) the body and  sexuality, gendered nature of religious practice and authority.		

CAS RN 338: Mysticism and Philosophy: Jewish and Islamic Perspectives
	Thematic introduction to mysticism and philosophy, with a focus on dynamics of religious experience.  Readings from medieval Jewish and Islamic philosophy; Sufi mysticism and philosophy; Kabbalah, Biblical  interpretation, Sufi poetry, Hebrew poetry from the Golden Age of Muslim Spain.		

CAS RN 339: The Modern Jew
	Explores Jewish modernity through attitudes toward place (migration, diaspora, land of Israel) and history (utopian, pragmatic, secular, religious), as well as individual and collective modes of Jewish self- expression, including literature, art, music, and film. Credit toward minor in Jewish Studies and major/minor in  Religion.		

CAS RN 340: The Quran
	The emergence of the Quran as a major religious text, its structure and literary features, and its principal themes and places within the religious and intellectual life of the Muslim community. 		

CAS RN 341: Islamic Mysticism: Sufism
	Rise and development of the mystical movement in early Islam; analysis of the thought of leading Sufi brotherhoods, their organization, liturgy, and religious life; the impact of Sufism on classical and postclassical Islam. 		

CAS RN 345: Islamic Law
	A survey of major trends in Islamic jurisprudence from the seventh century to the present; the structure of Islamic law, its regulative principles, its place in Islamic society, and the mechanisms by which it is elaborated and applied.   		

CAS RN 348: Rumi and Persian Sufi Poetry
	Introduction to the Persian Sufi poet Rumi's narrative and lyric writings. Beginning with an introduction to Islamic mysticism, studies the innovative aspects of Rumi's poetry and the problem of profane vs. sacred love. All readings in English translation. Also offered as CAS LZ 281. 		

CAS RN 360: Daoist Religion
	A historical survey of the Daoist traditions in China. The philosophy of Lao-tzu and Chuang-tzu and Han dynasty religion. Early Daoist movements, as well as the heyday of the religion in the Six Dynasties and the Tang. Modern Daoism as it was first formed in the Tang dynasty is also discussed.		

CAS RN 361: Confucian Religion
	Religious aspects of Confucianism, with attention to the Analects. Topics include ceremony, song and  poetry, morality and sagehood, ancestral sacrifice; establishment of Confucianism as state religion; role of  women; and modernity. Also offered as CAS LC 280.		

CAS RN 363: Zen Buddhism
	A study of Zen teachings and practices as a sect of Chinese and Japanese Buddhism, as a philosophic system, and as a pattern of culture.  		

CAS RN 364: Buddhist Literature
	Focuses on Buddhist sutras and other literature to explore key issues of doctrine, philosophy, and praxis in the Theravada and Mahayana traditions of Buddhism. Topics include the Buddha's life, practicing the path, emptiness, and interdependence.		

CAS RN 368: American Evangelicalism
	Major trends in American Evangelicalism, from the colonial awakenings and religious reform to the  contemporary Christian Right. Focus on how evangelicals have negotiated and shaped central tenets of  American culture, including understandings of gender, race, performance, nation, sexuality, and  economics. Also offered as CAS HI 294.		

CAS RN 375: Culture, Society, and Religion in South Asia
	Ethnographic and historical introduction to the Indian subcontinent with a focus on the impact of religion on cultural practices and social institutions.		

CAS RN 382: History of Religion in Pre-Colonial Africa
	The study of the development of religious traditions in Africa during the period prior to European  colonialism. An emphasis on both indigenous religions and the growth and spread of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam in the continent as a whole. Also offered as CAS AA 382 and CAS HI 349.		

CAS RN 384: The Holocaust
	Background of German (and European) anti-Semitism. Rise of Nazism and early oppression, initial Jewish reaction, mechanics of destruction, ghettos, camps, world response and nonresponse, literature of the Holocaust, and religious implications. 		

CAS RN 385: Representations of the Holocaust in Literature and Film
	Questions of representation in literature and film about the Holocaust, including testimonial and fictive  works by Wiesel and Levi, Ozick, and others; films include documentaries and feature films. Discussions of  the Holocaust as historical reality, metaphor, and generative force in literature. Also offered as CAS XL  281.		

CAS RN 387: Anthropology of Religion
	Myth, ritual, and religious experience across cultures. Special attention to the problem of religious  symbolism and meaning, religious conversion and revitalization, contrasts between traditional and world  religions, and the relation of religious knowledge to science, magic, and ideology. Also offered as CAS AN  384.		

CAS RN 390: Archaeology in the Holy Land
           			In Israel, archaeology is part of current events. The study of remains from the Israelite to the Muslim  conquests (c. 1200 BCE -- 640 CE) to learn how material evidence created and still plays a role in a larger  historical drama. Also offered as CAS AR 342.		

CAS RN 396: Philosophy of Religion
	Critical survey of the manner in which philosophers over the centuries have evaluated the truth and value claims of various religions. Focus on Hegel and  the nineteenth-century emergence of "philosophy of  religion" as a subdiscipline of philosophy and theology.  		

CAS RN 397: Topics in Philosophy and Religion
	Topic for Fall 2014: Philosophy and the Future of Religion. Examines key questions in the contemporary  philosophy of religion, including the possibility of religion without God, "naturalized" or scientific views of  religion, religious pluralism, and inter-religious tolerance. Featuring visiting lecturers in fall Institute for  Philosophy and Religion lecture series. Also offered as CAS PH 456.		

CAS RN 410: Religion, Community, and Culture in Medieval Spain
	Interactions between Muslims, Christians, and Jews in medieval Europe's most religiously diverse region --  from the establishment of an Islamic al-Andalus in 711 CE to the final Christian "reconquest" of the  peninsula and expulsion of the Jews in 1492 CE. Also offered as CAS HI 410.		

CAS RN 412: Theology of Christian Mysticism
	A concentrated venture in philosophical theology. Lectures, reading, and discussion center on the thought, not the praxis, of selected major mystics in the Christian tradition. Overviews Greek philosophical backgrounds; closely examines Eckhart, Nicholas of Cusa, Boehme, and William Blake.  		

CAS RN 420: Maimonides
	A study of major aspects of the thought of Maimonides. Primary focus on the Guide of the Perplexed, with attention to its modern reception in works by Baruch Spinoza, Hermann Cohen, Leo Strauss, and others. Also offered as CAS PH 409.		

CAS RN 423: Core Texts and Motifs of World Religions: West
           			An intensive seminar in primary texts and key ideas of theology and religious philosophy as developed in  representative world religions: Judaism, Christianity, Islam. First course in a year-long sequence. Each  semester may be taken independently.		

CAS RN 424: Core Texts and Motifs of World Religions: East
           			An intensive seminar in primary texts and key ideas of theology and religious philosophy as developed in  representative world religions: Hinduism, Buddhism, Daoism, Confucianism. Second course in a year-long  sequence. Each semester may be taken independently.		

CAS RN 425: Topics in South Asian Religions
	Specific aspects of South Asian religions within a historical or comparative/phenomenological framework.  Topic for Fall 2014: Lived Islam. South Asian religions can be studied as textual traditions or as contextual  ones. This  seminar explores how Islam is lived on a daily basis by Muslims of the Indian Subcontinent.  Emphasis on orthopraxy over orthodoxy.		

CAS RN 427: Topics in American Religion
	Topic for Fall 2014: American Spiritual Autobiography. Exploration of the art of portraying the self in the  light of the divine in U.S. history with an emphasis on contemporary work. Possible authors include:  Thomas Merton, Swami Yogananda, Malcolm X, Ann Lamott, Richard Rodriguez, Elie Wiesel, Jarena Lee.		

CAS RN 429: Religion and Politics in South Asia
	Meets with CAS IR 429. Explores the relationship between religion and politics in pre-colonial, colonial,  and post-colonial South  Asia through readings of primary texts as well as debates on religious  reform/revival, nationalism, caste, and partition.		

CAS RN 430: Topics in East Asian Religions
	Topic for Fall 2014: Buddhism, the State, and Politics in East Asia. Analyzes models of the ideal Buddhist  ruler in China, Korea, and Japan and their behaviors both historically and in the present. Topics include  state patronage and persecution of Buddhism as well as Buddhist rebellions and resistance to state control.		

CAS RN 435: Women, Gender, and Islam
           			Investigates the way Muslim religious discourse, norms, and practices create and sustain gender and hierarchy in religious, social, and familial life. Looks at historical and contemporary challenges posed to these structures.		

CAS RN 439: Jewish Bioethics
           			Exploration of Jewish perspectives on life, death and dying, abortion, the new reproductive technologies, organ transplantation and genetic engineering. Examination of the impact of the Nazi doctors, racial hygiene, euthanasia, and genocide on contemporary bioethics.		

CAS RN 452: Topics in Religious Thought
	Topics vary from year to year. Topic for Fall 2014: Happiness, East and West. What is happiness? How can   we achieve a balanced, healthy, fulfilling life? Classical thinkers such as Aristotle, Plato, Chuang Tzu;   Buddhist, Confucian, Epicurean, and Stoic paths; comparison with contemporary studies of happiness. Also  offered as CAS PH 485.		

CAS RN 453: Topics in Religion and Sexuality
	Topic for Fall 2011: The Body and Sexuality in Classical Religious Texts. Treats foundational primary sources in translation on sex and the body in several world religions. Consideration of differences in sources: genre, gender, modern/classical.  Traditions include Greek, Christian, Hindu, Buddhist, Daoist.		

CAS RN 459: Primo Levi Within Holocaust Literature
           			A study of Primo Levi's writings and scientific, theological, and philosophical approaches to the Holocaust. Other theorists (Arendt, Wiesel, Müller-Hill) and other survivors' testimonies (Delbo, Borowski, Fink) are read in conjunction with Levi's works. Also offered as CAS LI 459 and CAS XL 459.		

CAS RN 466: Religion and the Problem of Tolerance
	Explores the religious roots of tolerance as an alternative to secular, more liberal foundations for pluralism. Grapples with the challenge of tolerance to the revealed religions and the ways different societies have met or failed to meet this challenge.		

CAS RN 468: Symbol, Myth, and Rite
	Historical overview of ritual behavior, the role of symbolism in the study of culture, and the narrative quality of worldview and belief. Emphasis on verbal performance and public display events in specific cultural contexts. 		

CAS RN 470: Topics in Medieval Religious Culture
           			Topic for Fall 2013: Christian, Muslim, and Jew: Religion, Community, and Culture in Medieval Spain. Interactions between Muslims, Christians, and Jews in medieval Europe's most religiously diverse region - from the establishment of an Islamic al-Andalus in 711 CE to the final Christian "reconquest" of the  peninsula and expulsion of the Jews in 1492 CE. Also offered as CAS HI 407.		

CAS RN 494: Magical Texts: Literature & Practice
           			An advanced course in the interpretation of ancient magical texts, emphasizing the use of theoretical models (Malinowksi, Tambiah, J.Z. Smith) for understanding a selection of ritual manuals, amulets, binding tablets, and mystical ascent texts from Greco-Roman, Jewish, and Christian antiquity. Also offered as CAS CL 406 B1.		

CAS RN 504: Topics in Religion and the Visual Arts
           			In-depth discussion of special issues in the study of religion and art. May be repeated for credit as topics    change. Also offered as CAS AH  504.		

CAS RN 524: Topics in Religion and Literature
           			Topic for Fall 2014: Apocalypse and Literature. Literary responses to the biblical book of Revelation, from  ancient to modern times.  Systematic analysis of the biblical text. Readings from Dante, Langland, Rabelais,  Blake, Hölderlin, Dostoevsky, García Lorca, Samuel Beckett, and Flannery O'Connor. Reference to artistic  and musical  representations of apocalypse. Also offered as CAS XL 560 A1.		

CAS RN 555: Dante's Hell
	A close reading of one text, Dante Aligheri's Inferno, with attention to its medieval contexts: philosophical,  theological, and historical. Analysis of the poetic means by which Dante represents both human evil and  human hope. Bi-lingual text. Lectures and discussion in English. Also offered as CAS LI 555 and CAS XL  383.		

CAS RN 556: Dante: The Divine Comedy II: Purgatorio and Paradiso
	Focus on the literary, philosophical, and theological ideas Dante uses to represent his experience of  himself and of human nature. Bi-lingual texts. Lectures and discussions in English. Also offered as CAS LI  556 and CAS XL 385.		

CAS RN 561: Religion and International Relations
           			(Meets with CAS IR 561 and CAS PO 589.)  Explores the role of religion in contemporary international  relations in the context of questions about the common core of modernity. Reviews scholarly and policy  literature, and case studies, in order to elucidate religion's intellectual and operational diversity in  international relations.		

CAS RN 563: Muslim Societies: An Interdisciplinary History
           			Examines the states, empires, faiths, and ideologies of the Muslim world over a 1500-year period, including states from North and West Africa, through the Middle East, to Turkey, Iran, and then to Central and Southeast Asia. Also offered as CAS AH 539, HI 596, and RN 563. 		

CAS SO 100: Principles in Sociology
	An introduction to the major theories and basic principles of sociological analysis. Subjects include methods of social research and investigation; role of individuals in groups, organizations, and society; socialization and education; stratification; race and ethnicity; science, culture, and religion; formal and informal organization; and economic and political systems. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS SO 201: Sociological Methods
           			Required of concentrators and minor concentrators. Scientific method, measurement, experimentation, survey research, observational methods, projective techniques, and content analysis. 		

CAS SO 203: Introduction to Sociological Theories
	Required of sociology majors and minors. Theoretical problems in sociology. The works of the three major  founders of the discipline are the focus: Marx, Weber, and Durkheim. In-depth comparisons and contrasts  in respect to themes and approaches are offered.		

CAS SO 205: American Families
	Nature of the American family and its ethnic and class variants. Social changes affecting courtship, mate  selection, sexual behavior, reproduction, marital stability, and divorce through the life cycle. Social policies  affecting family life. Interrelations of family with economy, state, religion, and other institutions. Carries  social science divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS SO 207: Sociology of Race and Ethnicity
	Social definition of race and ethnicity. The adjustment of different ethnic groups and their impact upon   U.S. social life. How prejudice and discrimination create class identities and how caste relations have  affected patterns of integration during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Carries social science  divisional credit in CAS. Also offered as CAS AA 207.		

CAS SO 209: Crime and Delinquency
CAS SO 210: Confronting Persistent Social Inequalities in American Schools: Educational and Sociological Perspectives
	Examines issues of race, culture, gender, and identity in urban elementary classrooms. Course taught at  the Trotter School; transportation provided. Includes a field placement.		

CAS SO 211: Confronting Racial, Cultural, Gender, and Social Identities in Urban Classrooms: Educational and  Sociological Perspectives
           			Examines the sociological, cultural, and educational factors that contribute to the achievement gap and  what it will take to close this gap. Course is taught at the Trotter School; transportation provided. Includes  a field placement.		

CAS SO 215: Sociology of Health Care
	Social, cultural, and intercultural factors in health and illness. Training and socialization of medical professionals, roots of medical power and authority, organization and operation of health care facilities. U.S. health care system and its main problems. Comparison of health care systems in the U.S. and in other countries. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS SO 225: Law and Society
	The development of law as an institution of social regulation. Analysis of law and order as pursued in enforcement agencies and courts. The education of lawyers and the ethics of legal practice. Student observations in local criminal courts.  Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS SO 115. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS SO 232: Sociology and Inequality
	Investigates the formation of social classes and the social forces that create and sustain inequalities in the   United States and beyond, including attention to intersections of gender, race and ethnicity in family,   education, and the workplace.		

CAS SO 240: Sexuality and Social Life
	Introduction to sociological perspectives on sexuality. Historical and comparative analysis of sexuality, with   a focus on the social and cultural institutions that shape sexuality in the contemporary U.S. Carries social   science divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS SO 241: Sociology of Gender
	An introduction to the social construction of sex and gender with a focus on the economic, political, social,  and cultural forces that shape gender relations. Examines gender as a social structure that patterns  institutional inequalities and everyday interactions on society. Also offered as CAS WS 241.		

CAS SO 242: Globalization and World Poverty
	(Meets with CAS IR 242.) Globalization and world poverty; how and why over 80% of the world remains  poor and inequality increases despite economic modernization and democratization. Addresses  urbanization, immigration, religion, politics, development politics, foreign aid, women, drugs,  environment, food security. Special attention to Latin American, African, and Asian experiences. Carries  social science divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS SO 243: Immigrant Communities
	Introduction to sociology of immigrant communities with a focus on the contemporary U.S. Students gain an understanding of how immigrant communities develop, the different forms they take, and how they shape the social and economic adaptations of varied immigrant groups.		

CAS SO 244: Urban Sociology
	An analysis of cities and urban phenomena in preindustrial, industrial, and postindustrial societies with an emphasis on European and U.S. urbanization. A comparison of social scientific "theories" used to explain these same phenomena. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS SO 246: Sociology of Market Transitions
	Focus on East-Central Europe, the former Soviet Union, and China in the context of post-communist economic and political reforms and globalization. Topics include privatization, entrepreneurship, banking, and corruption. Effects on healthcare, education, social inequality, family and household dynamics.		

CAS SO 250: Introduction to the Sociology of Religion
	Explores the role of religion in the organization of meaning within human societies and its contribution to  the construction, maintenance, and transformation of the social order. Ways in which religion provides  specific sets of solutions to the problems of social order are also explored. Also offered as CAS RN 250.		

CAS SO 277: Technology and Society
	Examines technology as a fundamental element of and dynamic force in our society with the aim of providing a balanced understanding of the promise, consequences, and dilemmas brought about by specific technologies and to broaden students' perspectives and sense of social and professional responsibility for decisions related to technology. Combines both a liberal arts and an engineering perspective. 		

CAS SO 303: Substantive Themes in Sociological Theory
           			Critique and application of major sociological theories to key themes and topics. Connections between classical and modern arguments, syntheses of alternative perspectives, and gaps between various perspectives. Themes include the maintenance of social order, power and authority, conflict and change, and sources of alienation.		

CAS SO 304: Formal Organizations
           			Formal organizations as social systems. Theory of bureaucracy and administrative functions. The bases of authority, communication systems, and formal and nonformal structures. Organizational development, trends, and relations with the social environment.		

CAS SO 306: Boston's People and Neighborhoods
           			A comparison between nineteenth- and twentieth-century neighborhoods, connecting changes in everyday  life to larger demographic, economic, physical, and political changes affecting the whole city and  immediate suburbs. Includes tours of several Boston neighborhoods and archival research using  neighborhood newspapers.		

CAS SO 313: Economic Sociology
           			Presents the sociological approach to the study of production, distribution, consumption and markets, emphasizing the impact of norms, power, social structure, and institutions on the economy.  Compares classic and contemporary approaches to the economy by the social science disciplines. 		

CAS SO 315: The Social Nature of Technology
           			Theoretical foundations of sociology of technology from antiquity through the modern age.  Explores the  paradox of technology as being socially constructed, but treated as similar to nature. 		

CAS SO 318: Sociology of Childhood and Youth
           			Explores the "social construction" of childhood and youth, and examines ways in which social institutions (family, schools, media, and law) influence children's lives in different social settings. Also examined are social and policy issues surrounding childhood in the U.S. today. 		

CAS SO 320: Political Sociology
           			Introduces theories and research in political sociology and comparative politics. Examines the ways political ideas and governmental structures affect current issues, such as U.S. presidential elections, the waging of war, genocide, gender inequality, and provision of social services.		

CAS SO 323: Markets in Biomedicine and Healthcare
           			Complex ways in which market exchange impacts the practice of medicine, the delivery of patient care, and  the medical profession; commodification of bodies and emotions; theoretical discussion of the market and  overview of US health care system.		

CAS SO 328: Contemporary South Asian Societies
           			A broad introduction to contemporary South Asian societies. With a focus on the conceptual themes of modernity and identity, selected topics are explored, including South Asian ethnic and political conflicts, women's movements, popular culture, and diaspora communities.		

CAS SO 333: The Workplace
           			Investigates the social organization of work.  Topics include the history of industrial work, the presence of inequality at work, the impact of the work experience for individuals, and the effects of globalization and the "new economy" on work both here and abroad.		

CAS SO 334: Sociology of Mental Illness
           			An evaluation of current theories and research on the social sources and consequences  of mental illness. Featured topics for discussion include social-psychological  perspectives on the definition, diagnosis, etiology, and treatment of mental disorders.		

CAS SO 345: Film and Society
           			An overview of the historical, social-cultural, and aesthethic factors that contribute to cinematic  representations of social life, including portrayals of race, class, gender, and sexuality. Examines movie- going and spectatorship as it has changed over time.		

CAS SO 352: American Masculinities
           			Considers the biological and social organization of masculinities; the ways culture reproduces/articulates masculinities, particularly with regard to race and class; how masculine identities are expressed; male privilege; alternative masculinities; and what is at stake in negotiating contemporary masculinities.  Also offered as CAS WS 352. 		

CAS SO 400: Advanced Research Practicum
           			Prepares students planning to conduct honors research project in their senior year. Students interested in  developing a research project for alternate purposes will be admitted with permission of the instructor.		

CAS SO 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS SO 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS SO 403: Seminar: Gender Stratification
           			Inequality between women and men in employment, occupational position, and income. Examines the nature and causes of gender stratification in industrial societies. 		

CAS SO 404: Seminar: The Family
           			Explores the rise of "modern" families and the plurality of contemporary family forms and processes  including gay and lesbian families and new reproductive technologies. Particular attention to social and  economic inequalities and their implications for family life.		

CAS SO 408: Seminar: Ethnic, Race, and Minority Relations
           			Formation and position of ethnic minorities in the United States, including cross-group comparisons from  England, Africa, and other parts of the world. Readings and field experience.		

CAS SO 411: Seminar: Sociology of the Nonprofit Sector
           			Introduction to sociological research on that part of society known as the nonprofit sector,  including nonprofit organizations, community-based organizations, voluntary  associations, and social movements. Focus on some of the literatures major themes:  civil society, social capital, and nongovernmental organizations.		

CAS SO 418: Seminar: Sociology of Medicine
           			Focuses on the medical profession, sources of its power and authority, the effects of recent changes in financing and delivery of healthcare. Medical training and decision-making analyzed. Doctor-patient interaction and the use of alternative treatments.		

CAS SO 420: Seminar: Women and Social Change in the Developing World
           			Studies women in nonindustrial countries of Asia, Africa, and Latin America, stressing empirical research,  theory, and methodology. Comparisons between regions and with industrial countries. Focus on sex  segregation, female labor force participation, migration, fertility, family roles, and women and political  power. Also offered as CAS IR 425.		

CAS SO 434: Seminar: Sociology of Mental Illness
           			An evaluation of current theories and research on the social sources and consequences of mental illness. Featured topics for discussion include social-psychological perspectives on the definition, diagnosis, etiology, and treatment of mental disorders. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS SO 334. 		

CAS SO 444: Seminar: Sociology of Education
           			Explores how learning is executed in different settings and persons are selected to fit in various parts of our culture and how the institution of education contributes to social stability and change.  Contemporary educational reforms are reviewed and their effects are analyzed.		

CAS SO 447: Seminar: Global Sociology
           			(Meets with CAS IR 447.) Examines different sociological perspectives on global social dynamics and  processes.		

CAS SO 448: Culture, Markets, and Inequality
           			This seminar examines commerce as a cultural process, focusing on cultural production and consumption practices in fields like fashion, music, and bodily goods and services. Traces the cultural construction and  maintenance of gender, race, and class inequalities in markets.		

CAS SO 450: Seminar: Technology and Society
	Technologies in the four areas of knowledge, work, transportation, and biology are discussed in terms of  their historical development and social implications. Benefits and costs of technology are examined with  reference to current conflicts over use and misuse.		

CAS SO 452: Contemporary Debates in Sexualities Research
           			Engages debates about sexual identities, practices, and communities, conceptualizing sexuality as both a social construct and an institution. Students consider how sexualities operate across social contexts, their effects on systems of inequalities, and their intersections with race, class, and gender.		

CAS SO 462: Seminar: Great Theorists
           			This seminar examines the ideas of Montesquieu, Saint-Simon, Wollstonecraft, Tocqueville, Martineau, Spencer, Pareto, Veblen, Simmel, and Du Bois through critiques of these seminal concepts: "relative  deprivation," "the survival of the fittest," "conspicuous consumption," "the circulation of elites," and "double consciousness."		

CAS SO 491: Directed Study
           			Individual instruction and supervised study project in sociology for concentrators and nonconcentrators.		

CAS SO 492: Directed Study
           			Individual instruction and supervised study project in sociology for concentrators and nonconcentrators.		

CAS SO 541: Modernity Seminar I
           			This seminar looks at the phenomenon of modernity from a multidisciplinary point of view. Discussed   are the cultural foundations of modernity, specifically and primarily nationalism but also Romanticism,   science, and major political ideologies. Also analyzed are modernization and development as studied by   the social sciences, modernism, and postmodernism in literary and cultural studies; and the nature of   human beings and society in the perspectives of modern philosophy. Also offered as CAS AN 541. Either  or both of SO 541 and SO 543 may be taken for credit.  		

CAS SO 543: Modernity Seminar II
           			This seminar looks at the phenomenon of modernity from a multidisciplinary point of view. Discussed  are the cultural foundations of modernity, specifically and primarily nationalism but also Romanticism,  science, and major political ideologies. Also analyzed are modernization and development as studied by  the social sciences, modernism, and postmodernism in literary and cultural studies; and the nature of  man and society in the perspectives of modern philosophy. Also offered as CAS AN 543. Either or both of SO 541 and SO 543 may be taken for credit. 		

CAS SY 101: Senior Year Career Development ( Identifying, Pursuing and Landing a Job)
	SY101 will help seniors develop a plan of action for pursuing the right fit beyond graduation. Students will do self-assessment to help focus their search, identify potential employers, build effective resumes and cover letters, strengthen networking and interviewing skills and develop and individualized plan of action.		

CAS WR 097: English Grammar and Composition (ESL only)
           			Study of conventions of academic writing along with review of grammar and mechanics. Emphasis on  comprehension, summary, and critical analysis of a wide range of readings. Focus on accuracy and fluency  in writing and speaking. Frequent papers and in-class writing.		

CAS WR 098: Introduction to College Reading and Writing in English (ESL only)
           			Emphasis on critical reading and analytical writing. Review of grammar and mechanics in context.  Intensive practice in the patterns of academic argumentation. Various theme-based readings. Multiple  writing assignments of increasing complexity. Refinement of speaking skills through discussions and oral  presentations.		

CAS WR 100: Writing Seminar
           			Topic-based seminar in academic reading and writing. Attention to reading and analyzing primary and  secondary sources, argumentation, prose style, revision, and citation. Significant writing and individual  conferences.		

CAS WR 150: Writing and Research Seminar
           			Topic-based seminar in academic reading, writing, and research. Continuing attention to argumentation,  prose style, revision, and citation, with additional emphasis on college-level research. Significant writing  and individual conferences.		

CAS WR 202: Children's Literature in the Elementary School
	An introduction to the world of children's literature. Classics and exemplary modern works are studied,  with a particular focus on literary techniques, nonfiction text structures, cultural diversity, and gender.  Covers children's literature recommended by Massachusetts English Language Arts Framework (2001).   		

CAS WR 598: Tutoring in ESL
	Prepares Writing Center tutors to work effectively with ESL and multilingual students. Modules balance  theory and practice. Tutors gain knowledge about ESL writing and pedagogical ability to help students  become independent writers. No familiarity with linguistics or language teaching required.		

CAS WS 101: Gender and Sexuality I: An Interdisciplinary Introduction
CAS WS 214: Creating Women: Gendering Literature, Art, and Music
	Considers how gender shapes the creative work of women writers, artists, and musicians and how women's  artistic work contributes to understanding the social, cultural, and political history of women. Attention  also to sexuality, race, ethnicity, class. Carries CAS Humanities divisional credit. Cannot be taken for credit  in addition to CAS WS 114.   		

CAS WS 241: Sociology of Gender
	An introduction to the social construction of sex and gender with a focus on the economic, political, social,  and cultural forces that shape gender relations. Examines gender as a social structure that patterns  institutional inequalities and everyday interactions on society. Also offered as CAS SO 241.		

CAS WS 305: Critical Issues in Women's Studies
	Two topics are offered Fall 2014. Students may take one or both for credit. Sections A1 and B1: Women  and Comedy. From Mae West and 1930s screwball comediennes to Tina Fey and female stand-up  comics today, the course explores funny women, women's humor, what women find funny, and how  women use humor as a tool for survival, resistance, and subversion. Section C1: Superwomen, Cyborgs,  Vampires: Bodily Transformations and Social Change. Examines popular figures that cross gender,  sexual, racial, and human boundaries, challenging our ideas about those social categories. Are figures  metaphors for feminism, gay rights, racial equality? Readings in sociology and psychology, science  fiction and other pop genres.		

CAS WS 340: Women, Race, and Gender in Mass Media
	Develops students' media literacy through hands-on analysis of media and pop culture representations of women, femininity, and race; their relation to women's lived experience; and the place of "feminine" values in contemporary culture. 		

CAS WS 344: Images of Women in Popular Fiction
	Formulaic genres--fairy tales, romance fiction, detective novels, horror stories, and science fiction--offer a medium for tracing the development of representations of women. Course analyzes women's roles and functions in these genres, focusing on novels by American authors. 		

CAS WS 346: Women and Film
	Study of principally American films, exploring how the medium has shaped and been shaped by cultural perceptions of women. Readings provide background for interpretation of films ranging from screwball comedy to film noir, "women's films," and films by women directors.		

CAS WS 348: Gender and International Development
	Analysis of significant gender disparities worldwide in education, livelihoods, crisis settings, and political voice. Interdisciplinary approach combines discussion of novels, films, research on development, and lessons from field experience. Ideas on the advancement of gender equality and women's socio-economic empowerment.		

CAS WS 350: Women and Politics
	Readings, discussion, and field research on issues of women's relationship to the processes of political influence, change, and empowerment. Analysis of public policy related to women and children. Also   offered as CAS PO 309.		

CAS WS 352: American Masculinities
           			Considers the biological and social organization of masculinities; the ways culture reproduces/articulates masculinities, particularly with regard to race and class; how masculine identities are expressed; male privilege; alternative masculinities; and what is at stake in negotiating contemporary masculinities.  Also offered as CAS SO 352.		

CAS WS 360: Global Feminism: Race and Gender in International Perspectives
	(Meets with CAS IR 358 E.) Exploration of critical issues concerning women, gender, and race throughout  the world. Topics include women and the global economy, health care, reproduction, the dynamics of sex  industries, violence against women, international women's movements, and political/institutional change.  		

CAS WS 491: Directed Study: Women's and Gender Studies
	Individual instruction and supervised study project in women's or gender studies. Application form available in program office.		

CAS WS 492: Directed Study: Women's and Gender Studies
	Individual instruction and supervised study project in women's or gender studies. Application form available in program office.		

CAS XL 100: Introduction to Literature
	This writing course introduces students to techniques of academic writing through analysis of texts from a   wide variety of literary traditions, and of adaptations inspired by those texts. May count for both CAS WR  100 and XL major or minor credit.		

CAS XL 222: Introduction to Comparative Literature: Western Literature (in English Translation)
	Introduces basic methods of comparative literary study through close readings of influential texts of the Western tradition from antiquity to present. Topics include genre, translation, appropriation, interpretation, theories of literary production and effect. All works read in English; no prerequisites. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS XL 223: Introduction to Comparative Literature: Middle Eastern Literature (in English Translation)
	Introduces basic methods of comparative literary study through close readings of some of the most influential texts of Arabic, Persian, Turkish, and Hebrew literature. Readings may include The Arabian Nights, Shahnameh, lyric poetry, and novels from the twentieth century. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS XL 224: Introduction to Comparative Literature: East Asian Literature (in English Translation)
	Introduces basic methods of comparative literary study through close readings of some of the most  influential texts of Chinese, Japanese, and Korean literature. Readings may include The Tale of the Genji,  Dream of the Red Chamber, and Nine-Cloud Dream. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS XL 225: Introduction to Comparative Literature: South Asian Literature (in English translation)
	Introduces basic methods of comparative literary study through close readings of some of the most influential texts of South Asia from the classical, medieval, and modern traditions. Readings may include the Ramayana, Gitagovinda, devotional poetry, and novels from the twentieth century. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS XL 342: Travel Writing and the Muslim World
	How have Muslim travelers past and present written about places and people they saw abroad, and how  have Western travelers in the Muslim lands described their travels in "the East"? Readings include Nasir  Khusraw, Ibn Battuta, Eliza Fay, and Robert Byron.		

CAS XL 351: The Faust Tradition
           			Comparative study of the Faust theme, 1500 to present: Marlowe, Goethe, Mann, Gertrude Stein, Jan Svankmajer, others. Transmission and adaptation of literary themes within and between national traditions. Emphasis on close reading and research, use of theory and criticism. Meets with CAS LG 283.		

CAS XL 381: Topics in Gender and Literature (in English translation)
	Topic for Spring 2013: Middle Eastern Women Write. Exploration of feminist movements in the Middle East  through works of literature. The impact on gender of colonialism, revolution, and migration. Also offered   as CAS WS 305 B1.		

CAS XL 382: Topics in Gender and Film (in English translation)
	Topic for Fall 2014: Gender in East Asian Film. What roles have cinematic representations played in   constructing or challenging gender norms in twentieth century East Asia? How have images of sexuality   evolved across linguistic and cultural boundaries in East Asia? Films from China, Japan, and Korea. No   prerequisites. Also offered as CAS LC 470 A1, CAS LJ 451 B1, and CAS LK 470 A1.		

CAS XL 383: Dante's Hell (in English translation)
           			A close reading of one text, Dante Alighieri's Inferno, with attention to its medieval contexts: philosophical, theological, and historical. Analysis of the poetic means by which Dante represents both human evil and human hope. Bilingual text. Lectures and discussions in English.  Also offered as CAS LI 555 and CAS RN 555.		

CAS XL 384: Arthurian Literature
           			Topic for Spring 2014: Arthurian Traditions. Tradition and innovation in works of literature, painting, and  film inspired by King Arthur's court (6th-21st centuries). Themes include spiritual and erotic love; history  and imagination; conquest and nationalism; memory and forgetting; tropes of quest; sin and redemption.  Conducted in English.		

CAS XL 401: Sr Indep Work
			

CAS XL 402: Sr Indep Work
			

CAS XL 441: 1001 Nights in the World Literary Imagination
           			What is The Thousand and One Nights? How has this ever-expanding collection appealed to its diverse  audiences? Focus on Nights structure and themes, notable translations and offshoots in western literature  and art, and later appropriations by Arab and Muslim writers. Also offered as CAS EN 590 and CAS LY 441. 		

CAS XL 459: Primo Levi Within Holocaust Literature
	A study of Primo Levi's writings and scientific, literary, theological, and philosophical approaches to the Holocaust. Other theorists (Arendt, Wiesel, and Müller-Hill) and other survivors' testimonies (Delbo, Borowski, Fink) are read in conjunction with Levi's works. Also offered as CAS LI 459 and RN 459.		

CAS XL 470: Topics in Comparative Literature
	Three topics are offered Fall 2014. Students may take one, two, or three for credit. Section A1:   Literature in Iran and Afghanistan. Readings are premodern and modern texts, as well as film viewings,   with the aim of understanding how the two nations have received a shared literary heritage. What   modern cultural concerns are reflected in the different views of the Persian past? Also offered as CAS LZ   380 A1. Section B1: Russia in the Middle East: Literary Encounters. How have Russian writers imagined   the Muslim world? How have Arab writers imagined Russia and the USSR?  What happened when these   fantasies collided during real-life encounters (diplomacy, study abroad, war, exile)?  Knowledge of   Arabic or Russian useful but not necessary. Also offered as CAS LY 470 A1 and CAS LR 456 B1. Section  C1: Melodrama.  Melodrama as genre of fiction and film with focus on Japanese texts, viewed from a  comparative  perspective. Reading and discussion in English. Also offered as CAS LJ 451 A1.		

CAS XL 491: Ds Comp Lit
			

CAS XL 492: Ds Comp Lit
			

CAS XL 520: Theory of the Novel
           			Introduction to the theory of the novel in a comparative context. Readings may include Watt, Lukács, Bakhtin, Barthes and others on topics such as narrative voice, narrative closure, characterization, description, and desire in narrative. Novels by Austen, Flaubert, and Melville.		

CAS XL 540: Theory and Practice of Literary Translation
           			Weekly series of presentations by translators from Boston and elsewhere, open to registered students and to the public. Registered students complete special projects and attend workshops.		

CAS XL 560: Topics in Religion and Literature
           			Topic for Fall 2014: Apocalypse and  Literature. Literary responses to the biblical book of Revelation, from  ancient to modern times. Systematic analysis of the biblical text. Readings from Dante, Langland, Rabelais,  Blake, Hölderlin, Dostoevsky, García Lorca, Samuel Beckett, and Flannery O'Connor. Reference to artistic  and musical  representations of apocalypse. Also offered as CAS RN 524 A1.		

