CAS HI 409: Medieval Science and Technology
	Introduction to medieval science and technology, including the Greek and Roman inheritance, the transmission of Greek science to Europe by the Arabs, and medieval developments leading to the Scientific Revolution.		

CAS HI 410: Religion, Community, and Culture in Medieval Spain
	Interactions between Muslims, Christians, and Jews in medieval Europe's most religiously diverse region --  from the establishment of an Islamic al-Andalus in 711 CE to the final Christian "reconquest" of the  peninsula and expulsion of the Jews in 1492 CE. Also offered as CAS RN 410.		

CAS HI 414: Society and Culture in Early Modern Europe
	Examines selected topics in the history of Europe between the Renaissance and the Age of Revolution. The current offering focuses on the persecution of religious dissents, minorities, and witches; Wars of Religion; and the slow spread of ideas of toleration. 		

CAS HI 426: Music and Ideas from Mozart to the Jazz Age
           			Studies masterpieces of music alongside relevant works of fiction, philosophy, criticism, and cultural history to situate compositions in their larger context. The course includes music by such artists as Beethoven, Wagner, and Schoenberg, as well as Davis, Coltrane, and Ellington. 		

CAS HI 434: Monarchy in Modern Britain
           			A seminar probing seminal moments in the history of modern British sovereignty, when the politics of the   court intersected with the politics of the people. Particular consideration is given to how monarchy has  survived as an institution.		

CAS HI 435: Histories of Human Rights
           			Traces Westerners' development of a humanitarian sensibility in the eighteenth century and considers how this sensibility was deployed in struggles over the rights of various groups during the modern period. Emphasis on Anglo-American contributions.		

CAS HI 436: The Great War and the Fragile Peace
	Exploration of the military, political, social, economic, and cultural consequences of the First World War and the peace conference of 1919. Focuses on technological innovations, the expanded role of the state, and the long-range impact of the Versailles settlement. Also offered as CAS IR 436.		

CAS HI 446: Revolutionary Russia
	Examines how Russian state and society transformed from an autocratic empire into a radical socialist  federation in the early twentieth century. Explores competing ideologies, popular culture, and political  violence and considers interpretations and legacies of the revolutions after 1917. 		

CAS HI 448: Science and Modern Culture: Darwin, Freud, and Einstein
	Development of scientific theories of Darwin, Freud, and Einstein; impact of those ideas in different national cultures and their influence on literature, art, religion, and politics of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. 		

CAS HI 449: The History of Soviet Terror
           			Examines how terror became a tool of revolutionary transformation in the USSR, one which first  strengthened, then unseated Soviet state power. Explores how Soviet people experienced and participated  in such violence as a part of their everyday lives.		

CAS HI 450: Topics in the History of Popular Culture
	Focuses on various themes and debates in the history of popular culture. Takes everyday artifacts seriously  to understand how people have organized their lives and explained the world around them through stories,  images, music, advertisements, entertainments, and more.		

CAS HI 453: Three Revolutions
           			Examines how the English civil wars, the Glorious Revolution, and the American Revolution fundamentally altered assumptions about government in the English-speaking world. Faced with these interrelated upheavals, writers form Shakespeare to Jefferson pioneered modern understandings of self and society. 		

CAS HI 454: War and American Society, 1607-2001
           			Although committed to democracy, individual liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, Americans have frequently found themselves waging war. This course examines how war mobilization and the experience of combat since the settling of Jamestown have fundamentally changed American society. 		

CAS HI 455: Early American History and Culture
	Explores how religious schisms and revival, warfare with native Americans, political revolution, and commercial development transformed New England from a Puritanical agricultural society into an urbanized, industrial society by the outbreak of the American Civil War. 		

CAS HI 461: The Civil War in American Memory
	Examines the ways in which Americans have thought about the experiences of the Civil War, from the immediate postwar period through the later years of the twentieth century.		

CAS HI 465: The United States and the Cold War
	Examination of U.S. Cold War foreign policy from its origins at the end of World War II to the collapse of the Berlin Wall and of the Soviet Union. Also offered as CAS IR 465.		

CAS HI 467: Postwar America: Issues in Political, Cultural, and Social History, 1945-69
	Explores how, after the upheavals of World War II, American fought over and refashioned new norms and ideals in politics, daily life, and the home, Topics include youth rebellion, the African American freedom movement, antiwar activism, and the sexual revolution. 		

CAS HI 468: American Society since 1970: Issues in Domestic Political, Cultural, and Social History
	A historical investigation of the United States at the end of the American century, including Watergate and the imperial presidency, stagflation, the "New Politics" and the "Me Decade," conservatism, feminism, race relations, religion, politics, culture, community and family life.  		

CAS HI 482: Merchants, Pirates, Missionaries, and the State in Maritime Asia, 600-2000
           			Oceans connected the peoples of coastal Asia, Africa, and Oceania long before the arrival of Europeans in the 1500s. This course examines how commerce, piracy, religious contact, and imperialisms shaped maritime Asia, and how oceans facilitated our own era's global connections. 		

CAS HI 487: The Making of Modern China, 1600 to the present
           			Explores continuity and change between later imperial China and the Republican and Communist eras. Examines family and gender structures, ethnic classifications, and military traditions in late dynastic times and how revolution brought change from within and abroad. 		

