CAS AH 234: The Art of Rome
	Roman architecture, painting, sculpture, and minor arts.  Emphasis on developments in Rome, Pompeii, and Central Italy and on the political and social role of Roman art and architecture.		

CAS AH 240: Medieval Art
	European art and architecture from the Fall of Rome through High Gothic. Covers media including sculpture, textiles, stained glass, and precious metalwork. Monuments treated are Rome's great churches, the Book of Kells, the Bayeux Tapestry, and Chartres and Rheims cathedrals.		

CAS AH 242: Latin American Art Since Contact
	Surveys Latin American art from the colonial period to the present and relates it to imperial, state,  institutional, and private agendas. Interrogates both notions of art within colonial/neo-colonial contexts  and changing roles of artists over the past half millennium.		

CAS AH 257: Renaissance Art
	Survey of the arts in the Renaissance in Italy from the communes of the early fifteenth  century to the courts of the sixteenth century. 		

CAS AH 284: Arts in America
	Survey of American painting, architecture, sculpture, prints, and photography from the early settlement in 1630 to the present. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS AH 287: The Nineteenth Century
	Examines the major currents in nineteenth-century painting and sculpture, from David to  Rodin, in the context of nationalism, revolution, colonial expansion, and technological  growth. Emphasizes European developments: Neoclassicism, Romanticism, Realism,  Impressionism, and Symbolism. 		

CAS AH 295: History of Photography
	An introduction to the study of photographs. The history of the medium in Europe and America from its invention in 1839 to the present. After lectures on photographic theory and methodology, photographs are studied both as art objects and as historical artifacts. 		

CAS AH 313: Imperial Reflections: Early Modern Islamic Art and Architecture
	Architecture, manuscripts, textiles, metalwork, and ceramics of the Mughal, Ottoman, and Safavid Empires. Focus on the formation of imperial styles, intersections between art and politics, and the importance of the arts in dynastic legitimization.		

CAS AH 314: After Genghis Khan: Art and Architecture in Central Asia and Iran
	Examines the art and architecture in Iran and Central Asia of the Ilkhanids and Timurids (thirteenth-sixteenth centuries), two of the most innovative and dynamic artistic traditions of the Islamic world, and heirs to the traditions of Genghis Khan's Mongol Empire.		

CAS AH 316: African Diaspora Arts in the Americas
	Study of the transmission of African artistry in the Caribbean, South America, and the  United States from the period of slavery to the present. Topics include Kongo and Yoruba  arts and their influence on the arts of Santería, Vodun, and carnival. Also offered as CAS AA 316.		

CAS AH 317: From Morocco to Timbuktu: Art and Architecture at the Saharan Crossroads
	Cultural exchange between North and West Africa, and its impact on art and architecture from the medieval period to the present; the interaction between Islam and other modes of African religious practice and how this interaction influenced African aesthetic expression. 		

CAS AH 322: Ancient Aztec and Inca Civilizations
           			The conquests, trade, society, history, religion, art, and  architecture of the Aztec and Inca Empires in Mexico and Peru, as revealed  archaeologically and in the accounts of their Spanish conquerors. Also offered as CAS AR 322.		

CAS AH 326: Arts of Japan
	The arts of Japan, from prehistory to the twentieth century. Lectures intend to cover a broad range of  media (painting, sculpture, ceramics, prints) and building types (temples, palaces, castles, teahouses).  Special attention is paid to major projects integrating multiple forms.		

CAS AH 327: Arts of China
	Introduction to the major tradition of Chinese art, from the Neolithic period to the present. Topics include bronzes, tomb sculpture, painting,calligraphy, ceramics, and gardens.  		

CAS AH 328: Modern Japanese Architecture
	An introduction to the major architects, buildings, theories, and critical issues of Japanese architecture from 1850 to the present. Focus on the development of new forms in response to interchanges with the West, new technologies, earthquakes, nationalism, international wars, and colonialism.		

CAS AH 331: Arts of Archaic Greece
	Examines a critical formative stage in Greek art. Analyzes the rise of identifiable artists,  the relationship of art to epic, the evolution of the architectural orders, and the formation  of Greek style in monumental stone sculpture.		

CAS AH 345: Early Medieval and Romanesque Art
	Art and architecture of medieval Europe from the Early Christian Catacombs to the great Gothic cathedrals.   Topics include piety, the cult of relics, the Virgin, monasticism, and secular monuments such as medieval  European castles and the Bayeux Tapestry.		

CAS AH 353: Renaissance Architecture and Theory
	Italian Renaissance architecture and architectural theory from 1400 to 1600.  Emphasis on individual buildings and urban planning in Rome, Florence, and Venice, and on treatises by Alberti, Serlio, and Palladio. 		

CAS AH 359: Northern Renaissance Painting
	The painting in countries north of the Alps (Netherlands, Flanders, Burgundy, France, Germany) from the fourteenth through the sixteenth centuries, studied in its historic, cultural, environmental, and artistic contexts. Architecture, sculpture, and graphics are included. 		

CAS AH 361: Southern Baroque Art
	Seventeenth-century art in Italy, France, and Spain; emphasis on Caravaggio, Bernini, Poussin, Velázquez.		

