CAS LC 315: Classical Chinese
           			Basic grammatical components of classical Chinese with emphasis on word and phrase construction,  particles, and sentence structure. Original texts from ancient mythology, philosophy, literature, geography,  medicine, science, and technology. Course conducted in Chinese.		

CAS LC 316: Topics in Classical Chinese
           			Reading and discussion of Classical Chinese literature for students with basic knowledge of Classical  Chinese. Sample topics include Worlds of Chinese Philosophy, Fate and Fortune in China's Great Historians,  Three Millennia of Chinese Poetry, Classical Love and Romance. (Course conducted in Chinese or English,  depending on topic.)		

CAS LC 401: Sr Indep Work
			

CAS LC 402: Sr Indep Work
			

CAS LC 411: Fourth Year Modern Chinese 1
           			Advanced-level readings in modern Chinese. Discussion in Chinese of literary materials in various forms  and styles. Special attention to works written between 1919 and 1949. Regular compositions and lab work  (tapes and films).		

CAS LC 412: Fourth Year Modern Chinese 2
           			Advanced-level readings in modern Chinese. Discussion in Chinese of literary materials in various forms  and styles. Special attention to works written between 1919 and 1949. Regular compositions required.		

CAS LC 420: Topics in Chinese through Media
           			Introduction to Chinese-language media from various countries and critical analysis of differences in   reporting on current events. Topics may include economic, political, legal, socio-cultural issues, and   various media. Conducted in Chinese. May be repeated for credit as topic changes. Topic for Fall 2014:   Business News in Multiple Chinese Media.		

CAS LC 440: Mass Media and Social Change in Modern China
           			The Chinese press, radio, and television from their late nineteenth-century beginnings to the present as major forces shaping public opinion and mass culture. Focus on the cultural, economic, and political implications of the media, including entertainment and advertising.		

CAS LC 486: Workshop on Translating and Interpreting Chinese
           			Enhances students' knowledge of Chinese by developing practical skills in translating and interpreting.   Students practice translating a variety of text types, using various dictionaries and internet sources, and  interpreting in different situations.		

CAS LC 491: Directed Study: Chinese
           			Application form available in department.		

CAS LC 492: Directed Study: Chinese
           			Application form available in department.		

CAS LD 111: Amharic 1
	First semester four-skill Amharic course leading to proficiency in oral expression, listening  comprehension, reading, cultural understanding, and writing using the Amharic alphabet.		

CAS LD 112: Amharic 2
           			This second semester four-skill Amharic course leads toward proficiency in oral expression, listening   comprehension, reading, cultural understanding, and writing using the Amharic alphabet.		

CAS LD 115: Zulu 1
	First semester four-skill Zulu course leading to proficiency in oral expression, listening comprehension,  reading, writing and cultural understanding.		

CAS LD 116: Zulu 2
           			Second-semester four-skills Zulu course leading to proficiency in oral expression, listening  comprehension, reading, writing and cultural understanding. This course is a continuation of the first  semester's work, expanding students' ability to communicate in everyday contexts.		

CAS LD 119: Igbo 1
	First semester four-skill Igbo course leading to proficiency in oral expression, listening comprehension,  reading, writing, and cultural understanding.		

CAS LD 120: Igbo 2
           			Second-semester four-skills Igbo course leading to proficiency in oral expression, listening  comprehension, reading, writing, and cultural understanding. This course builds on the first semester,  expanding students' ability to communicate in everyday contexts. 		

CAS LD 211: Amharic 3
