CAS LI 350: Italian Literature I: Medieval
           			Development of techniques for reading and interpreting Italian literary texts. Historical and critical study of  the first two centuries of Italian literature, 1200-1400: the early poets, Guido Cavalcanti, and Dante.  Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS LI 351: Italian Literature II: Renaissance and Baroque
           			Techniques for analysis of Italian texts from the fourteenth through the seventeenth centuries. Francesco   Petrarca, Giovanni Boccaccio, a play of Nicolò Machiavelli's, Ludovico Ariosto, female love-poets of the   sixteenth century, the Baroque poetry of Giambattista Marino. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS LI 352: Italian Literature III: Modern Period
           			Development of techniques for reading and interpreting Italian literary texts. Historical and critical study of Italian literature from the eighteenth to the twentieth century: Alfieri, Romanticism and Leopardi, Verga, Capuana and verismo, theatre of Pirandello. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.   		

CAS LI 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LI 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LI 450: The Novel in Nineteenth- and Twentieth-Century Italy
           			An examination of the modern novel in Italy: Foscolo, Capuana, D'Annunzio, Bassani, and Calvino. The development of the novel in Italy is discussed along with related questions of narrative perspective, cultural ideologies, and historical context. 		

CAS LI 453: Autobiography and the Confessional Novel
           			Discussion of Italian autobiographical and confessional novels, concentrating on theoretical questions of self-representation and the differences between confession and autobiography. Authors read: Capuana, D'Annunzio, Svevo, and Aleramo.  		

CAS LI 459: Primo Levi Within Holocaust Literature
           			A study of Primo Levi's writings and scientific, theological, and philosophical approaches to the Holocaust. Other theorists (Arendt, Wiesel, Müller-Hill) and other survivors' testimonies (Delbo, Borowski, Fink) are read in conjunction with Levi's works. Also offered as CAS RN 459 and CAS XL 459.		

CAS LI 473: The Masters of Italian Cinema
           			The creative work of Fellini, Visconti, Antonioni, Bertolucci, and De Sica as expressions of a specific cultural perspective on Italian life of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Additional focus on several novels and screen plays that have influenced the work of the directors.		

CAS LI 491: Directed Study: Italian
           			Application form available in department.		

CAS LI 492: Directed Study: Italian
           			Application form available in department.		

CAS LI 553: Petrarch and the Tradition of Love Poetry
           			Petrarch's Canzoniere and earlier philosophical love poems in Italian. Study of later English, French, Spanish poems in the Petrarchan style. Bilingual texts available.  		

CAS LI 555: Dante's Hell
           			A close reading of one text, Dante Alighieri's Inferno, with attention to its medieval contexts: philosophical,  theological and historical. Analysis of the poetic means by which Dante represents both human evil and  human hope. Bi-lingual text. Lectures and discussion in English. Also offered as CAS RN 555 and CAS XL  383.		

CAS LI 556: Dante: The Divine Comedy II: Purgatorio and Paradiso
           			Focus on the literary, philosophical, and theological ideas Dante uses to represent his experience of  himself and of human nature. Bi-lingual texts. Lectures and discussions in English. Also offered as CAS RN  556 and CAS XL 385.		

CAS LJ 111: First-Semester Japanese
	Introduction to spoken and written Japanese and to fundamentals of Japanese grammar with oral drills and written exercises.		

CAS LJ 112: Second-Semester Japanese
           			Introduction to spoken and written Japanese and to fundamentals of Japanese grammar with oral drills and written exercises.		

CAS LJ 211: Third-Semester Japanese
