CAS HI 596: Muslim Societies: An Interdisciplinary History
           			Examines the states, empires, faiths, and ideologies of the Muslim world over a 1500-year period, including states from North and West Africa, through the Middle East, to Turkey, Iran, and then to Central and Southeast Asia. Also offered as CAS AH 539, AN 548, and RN 563. 		

CAS HI 597: Diasporas and Identity
           			History of diasporan commercial networks during the past four centuries in the West and other parts of the  world, and emergence of modern global political economy. Focuses on transformation from exilic  nationalism to diasporization, transnationalism, and deterritorialization of diasporic identity.		

CAS ID 116: Africa Today: The Beat of Popular Culture
	Core course in the African Studies minor. Provides a fresh view of African popular culture through the lens of contemporary literature, film, television, music, dance, and the visual arts. 		

CAS IR 206: Introduction to the Sociology of Globalization
	(Meets with CAS SO 206.) A sociological introduction to globalization. Explores the roles of technology,  transnational corporations, and the state. Considers globalization's impacts on the workplace, the  environment, and other institutions as well as the emergence of global social movements.		

CAS IR 230: Fundamentals of International Politics
	Introduction to basic concepts of international politics: the state system and types of states, modern ideologies, legal frameworks of international transactions, and political regions. Also raises key issues such as population, the environment, war, and international law. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS IR 242: Globalization and World Poverty
	(Meets with CAS SO 242.) Globalization and world poverty; how and why over 80% of the world remains poor and inequality increases despite economic modernization and democratization. Addresses urbanization, immigration, religion, politics, development politics, foreign aid, women, drugs, environment, food security. Special attention to Latin American, African, and Asian experiences. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS IR 250: Europe and International Relations
	Meets with CAS PO 343. Provides an overview European affairs. Topics include the foreign policies of  European nations, the dynamics of European integration, NATO, international migration and ethnic conflict,  and European relations with the United States, Russia, and neighboring countries.		

CAS IR 251: Introduction to Comparative Politics
	Meets with CAS PO 151. Examines different patterns of political development and contemporary politics in  Western Europe, Latin America, Africa, and the former Soviet bloc. Introduces the comparative method in  political science and competing theories of political development and political change. 		

CAS IR 271: Introduction to International Relations
	(Meets with CAS PO 171.) Undergraduate required principal course. Study of basic factors in international relations, Western state systems, the concept of balance of power, nationalism, and imperialism. Primarily for majors and minors. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS IR 275: The Pacific Challenge
	(Meets with CAS PO 350.) The dynamic growth of Pacific Rim countries poses an impressive array of  challenges for the U.S. and the world. Analyzes Japanese trade and defense policies, the rise of the "mini- dragons" (Taiwan, South Korea, Hong Kong, and Singapore) and "new mini-dragons" (Indonesia, Thailand,  and Malaysia), "Confucian capitalism," democratization (and its failure in China), and legacies of the  Indochina war. 		

CAS IR 290: Drugs and Security in the Americas
	Drug trafficking is one of the greatest threats to security and stability in the Americas. In this class, we  study how drug trafficking became such an immense problem and why it has been so difficult to solve.		

CAS IR 292: Fundamentals of International Economics
           			Basic issues of international finance. Topics include the balance of payment adjustment, theories of exchange rate determination, and case studies in international economic policy. Geared for international relations students; does not count toward economics requirements for economics concentrators. 		

CAS IR 300: Topics in International Relations
	Examines various aspects of international relations. Topics vary each semester. Topic for Fall 2014:  Introduction to Middle East Politics. Survey of political changes across the Middle East since World War I.  Focuses on role of colonial legacies in state formation; relationship between of economic development and  regime-type; role of Islamist opposition movements; and international intervention and regional conflicts.		

CAS IR 304: Environmentally Sustainable Development
	 (Meets with CAS EE 304.) Traces the emergence of sustainable development as the defining environmental challenge of our times. Surveys and evaluates policies for balancing ecological sustainability and economic development in various parts of the world and at the global level.		

CAS IR 310: The Sea and International Relations
           			Covers the world's seas in areas of resource exploitation, use of commercial transport, the deployment of maritime power, environmental issues, possible use by terrorists, and the associated body of international law.		

CAS IR 318: Religion and American Foreign Policy
	(Meets with CAS RN 318.) Introduction to the historical roots and contemporary relevance of religion for American foreign policy. Uses conventional chronological approaches to explore key themes that illustrate the role of religion as input and object of American foreign policy.		

CAS IR 320: The American Military Experience
	Meets with CAS HI 286. Investigates how the United States waged war during the twentieth century-- and  continues to wage war since 9/11. Why and how do Americans fight? Who serves and who sacrifices? With  what consequences for American democracy?		

CAS IR 322: Governing Crises: The Political Economy of Financial Booms and Busts
           			Explores how and why financial crises take place,spread across borders, and how to avoid future financial  crises. Uses political, historical, and sociological analysis to address these questions while exploring both  mainstream and alternative economic approaches to financial crises.		

CAS IR 325: The Great Powers and the Eastern Mediterranean
	Meets with CAS HI 229. The Eastern Mediterranean as center of Great Power confrontation. Its impact on  wider international relations, the domestic political results, the role of sea power, and the origins, conduct,  and resolution of wars.		

CAS IR 328: Turko-Persia in the Twentieth Century
	The twentieth-century history of the non-Arab Muslim Middle East, i.e., Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan, and Central Asia. Analysis of the constitutional revolutions in Turkey and Iran, Kemalism, the Islamic revolution in Iran, and communism in the Soviet Union and Afghanistan. Also offered as CAS HI 382.		

