CAS AH 365: Baroque Arts in Northern Europe
	Seventeenth-century art in Holland and Flanders. Emphasis on Rubens, Van Dyck,  Frans Hals, Rembrandt, and Vermeer.		

CAS AH 367: Material Culture
	Introduction to the theory and practice of the interdisciplinary study of material culture, which includes everything we make and use, from food and clothing to art and buildings. Topic for Fall 2013: American Folk Art. Course will explore the range of objects, created from the seventeenth century to the present, known as American Folk Art. Also offered as CAS AM 367. 		

CAS AH 368: The Grand Tour
	The culminating educational experience for the elite of Enlightenment Europe took the form of an   extended trip to Italy, "The Grand Tour." This course recreates the itinerary of the Tour and analyzes its   impact on art, architecture, collecting, and connoisseurship.		

CAS AH 369: American Folk Art
	Explores the objects that collectors and museums identify as "American Folk Art." Examines how this label  developed throughout the twentieth century; familiarizes students with major collections and genres  including painting, sculpture, textiles, and other media. Also offered as CAS AM 369.		

CAS AH 376: Housing America
	What do dwellings say about the diversity of American experience? For over four centuries and across a  continent, wealth and poverty, family and community, taste and technology have all shaped the meaning of  home. Illustrated lecturers supplemented by field trips. Also offered as CAS AM 376.		

CAS AH 377: American Furniture and Allied Arts, 1630-1830
	Survey of furniture and related arts-painting, architecture, and silver-with an emphasis on aesthetics and quality, sources, style changes, regional differences, materials, and construction.		

CAS AH 379: American Art and Culture in the Nineteenth Century
	Explores the visual arts of painting, sculpture, photography, and popular media, through their interplay  with persistent political and social questions that defined nineteenth-century America and continue to  shape life in the twenty-first century. Themes include heroes, citizenship, war, imperialism,  cosmopolitanism, consumerism.		

CAS AH 382: Nineteenth-Century Architecture
	Survey of European and American architecture from 1750 to 1910. Explores issues in architecture, landscape architecture and city planning, and examines style, technology, and architectural theory.  		

CAS AH 385: American Architecture
	An introductory survey to the American-built environment across centuries and spanning regions. Students  examine how culture, technology, economics, and geography have shaped American buildings, spaces, and  landscapes. Topics include houses, courthouses, churches, factories, cities, and resort communities.		

CAS AH 386: Twentieth-Century American Painting
	Realist and avant-garde movements of the twentieth century, including New York dada, early abstraction, regionalism, art and politics during the depression years, abstract expressionism, pop art and minimal art, performance art, feminist art, and recent developments in postmodernism.  		

CAS AH 389: Impressionism
	Detailed study of Impressionism from 1860s to circa 1900. Emphasis is on French artists, but  Impressionists elsewhere in Europe and America are also considered. Discusses Impressionism's sources,  Realist underpinnings, stylistic development, themes, and changes in the 1880s.		

CAS AH 391: Twentieth-Century Art to 1940
	A study of the key tendencies in European art between the 1880s and World War II. The work of van Gogh, Picasso, Matisse, Dalí, and their contemporaries is examined in relation to major issues in European culture and politics. 		

CAS AH 392: Twentieth-Century Art from 1940 to 1980
	An exploration of the major currents in European and American art between 1940 and 1980. Examines abstract expressionism, pop art, minimalism, earthworks, and conceptual art in relation to major issues in postwar culture, politics, and art criticism.		

CAS AH 393: Contemporary Art: 1980 to Now
	Explores the terms of debate, key figures, and primary sites for the production and reception of contemporary art on a global scale since 1980. Painting, installation art, new media, performance, art criticism, and curatorial practice are discussed. 		

CAS AH 398: Twentieth-Century Architecture
	An introduction to the major developments in architecture and urban planning from ca. 1900 to the present. Traces the history of modern architecture in key projects, taking account of formal, technological, and ideological factors, as well as social, cultural, and environmental contexts.		

CAS AH 399: History and Theory of Landscape Architecture
	Explores man's relationship with nature by a study of selected built environments from antiquity to the present. Focus on both the private garden and the public park--here considered as works of art--and their changing forms, meaning, and interpretations.		

CAS AH 428: Seminar: Islamic Art
           			The development of the central aesthetic concepts and visual traditions of the Islamic world are    considered through a variety of time periods, media, or themes. Topic for Spring 2013: Painting and  Calligraphy in Islam. Examines the manuscript traditions of the Islamic world, with particular attention to  painting and calligraphy. Books and albums are considered within the genres of religious, historical, and  literary manuscripts. Consideration of the Persian epic Shahnama, glittering Qurans, and royal albums.		

CAS AH 429: Seminar: African Art
           			In-depth examination of varying topics in the study of African art and architecture. Topic for Spring 2014:  Contemporary African Art. A seminar concentrating on contemporary African painting, sculpture, and  photography from 1950 to the present. We question and critique how the term "contemporary" is used in an  African context and analyze the dichotomy between "contemporary" and "traditional" African art.		

CAS AH 433: Seminar: Greek Art
           			Topics vary annually. Topic for Spring 2014: TBA.		

CAS AH 438: Seminar: Pompeii
	An in-depth study of Pompeii and the other towns buried by Mount Vesuvius. All aspects of the Vesuvian  cities are examined, including urban planning and public architecture, private domestic and funerary  architecture, mural painting, mosaics, and sculpture. Also offered as CAS AR 438.		

