CAS LM 212: Fourth-Semester isiXhosa
           			This fourth semester four-skills IsiXhosa course develops communicative competence and confidence in the use of IsiXhosa in speaking, reading, writing, and listening in culturally acceptable ways. Students learn to communicate at an intermediate high level of proficiency.		

CAS LN 111: First-Semester Hindi-Urdu
           			Elementary grammar, conversation, reading, writing. 		

CAS LN 112: Second-Semester Hindi-Urdu
           			Continues the text from CAS LN 111; grammar, conversation, reading, writing.		

CAS LN 211: Third-Semester Hindi-Urdu
           			Development of communicative skills acquired in the first year. Readings in Indian civilization. Practice in conversational Hindi-Urdu. Writings exercises involving more complex grammatical patterns.		

CAS LN 212: Fourth-Semester Hindi-Urdu
           			Further review of the structures of Hindi-Urdu. Practice in conversation involving specialized topics. Advanced readings in Hindi. Frequent compositions. Satisfactory completion of LN 212 fulfills the CAS language requirement.		

CAS LN 225: Tradition and Modernity in Indian Film and Literature (in English translation)
	A survey of modern Indian films and literature pertaining to the way traditional values are negotiated in a  modern world. The subjects of the novels and films studied range from love, family, and duty to death and  moksha.		

CAS LN 260: Gateway to Asian Cultures
	Panoramic introduction to the cultures of East and South Asia in comparative perspective (China, Japan,  Korea, Vietnam, India). Examines shared foundations, transformative inflection points, sites, peoples, and  ideologies over the past two millennia through primary texts and media. Also offered as CAS LC 260, CAS  LJ 260, CAS LK 260, and CAS XL 260.		

CAS LN 303: Modern Hindi Literature and Culture
           			Advanced Hindi, concentrating on all four communicative skills, diverse registers, and idioms. Exposure to  literature, media and other cultural materials.		

CAS LN 304: Urdu Language and Literature
           			Introduction to Urdu language and literary culture, concentrating on all four communicative skills, diverse  registers, and idioms. Exposure to literature, media, and other cultural materials.		

CAS LN 491: Ds Hindi-Urdu
			

CAS LN 492: Ds Hindi-Urdu
			

CAS LP 111: First-Semester Portuguese
	Introduction to grammatical structures. Fundamental communications skills of listening, speaking, reading  and writing. Exposure to the culture and civilization of the Portuguese-speaking world through media  broadcast, literature readings, films, music, and videotapes. Lab required. Four hours weekly. 		

CAS LP 112: Second-Semester Portuguese
           			Covers the important grammar points not studied in CAS LP 111.  Further develops the four communicative  skills while expanding students' background knowledge of the history and cultures of the Portuguese- speaking world. Lab required. Four hours weekly.		

CAS LP 123: Intensive Elementary Portuguese
	Intensive elementary Portuguese for those with previous study of Spanish and other interested students.  Equivalent of one year of college Portuguese. Emphasizes the four communicative skills: speaking,  listening, reading, and writing. Introduces grammar and the culture of the Lusophone world through media  broadcast, literature readings, films, music, and videotapes.		

CAS LP 211: Third-Semester Portuguese
           			Promotes cross-cultural understanding of the Luso-African-Brazilian cultures through authentic literary  texts, multimedia, film and music. Completes study of grammatical structures and syntactical patterns.   Emphasizes reading, writing and conversational competency. Conducted in Portuguese. 		

CAS LP 212: Fourth-Semester Portuguese
           			Review of the grammar and syntax of Portuguese. Further develops reading, writing, and conversational  competency while expanding students' knowledge of history and culture. Conducted in Portuguese. Fulfills  the CAS language requirement.		

CAS LP 305: Topics in Portuguese Language and Culture
           			Centers on advanced Portuguese grammar and develops writing and speaking skills beyond the level  reached in CAS LP 212. Provides a basic introduction to the main periods and features of Brazilian history  and culture. Also suitable for heritage speakers.		

CAS LP 310: Introduction to Brazilian Cinema (in English translation)
	An overview of Brazilian cinema in the 60s, 70s and 80s, its discourse on revolution and marginality, as well as its connection to artistic, musical, and literary movements. Focus on the work of avant-garde filmmakers and younger generations. Also includes attention to Cuban cinema. Taught in English.		

CAS LR 111: First-Year Russian I
