CAS CL 497: Directed Study in Latin
           					

CAS CL 502: Studies in Ancient Greek and Roman Literature
	Topics vary. Open to advanced undergraduate and graduate students. Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

CAS CL 519: History of the Greek Language
           			Presents a comprehensive historical approach to the Greek language, tracing and elucidating major changes with attention to structure, grammar, syntax, vocabulary, and elements of style. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS CL 319.		

CAS CL 520: Studies in Latin Literature
           			Topic for Spring 2015: Livy, Machiavelli, and the Creation of the Republic. Analysis of the first decade of  the history and of Machiavelli's reading of the early books in the "Discourses on Livy."		

CAS CL 521: Survey of Latin Literature I
	Historical survey from archaic Latin through Republican literature; introduction to classical scholarship. For advanced students wishing to increase their language skills through extensive reading. 		

CAS CL 530: Latin Prose Composition
	Practice in set and free composition of Latin prose, aimed at developing advanced language proficiency. 		

CAS CL 546: Early Christian Latin Literature
           			Introduction to the reading and interpretation of important works of early Christian literature (3rd -- 6th centuries) in Latin, for students of classics (esp. Latin), theology, and related historical  disciplines. The focus is on language, literary form, relation to 'classical' literature, and historical contexts.  Topics vary.  Also offered as CAS CL 346. 		

CAS CL 560: Studies in Ancient Greek History
           			Topics vary. Not offered 2014/2015.		

CAS CL 561: Survey of Greek Literature 1
	Reading course designed to study the history of Greek literature through a chronological  survey of representative authors and genres: Homer through the archaic age.  		

CAS CL 562: Survey of Greek Literature 2
	Reading course designed to study the history of Greek literature through a chronological  survey of representative authors and genres: Classical through Hellenistic period.		

CAS CL 563: Greek Prose Composition
	Close study of exemplary Greek prose as the basis for original composition in Greek of sentences and short passages, then more extensive prose pieces.		

CAS CL 596: Early Christian Greek Literature
           			Introduction to the reading and interpretation of important works of early Christian literature (1st --6th centuries) in Greek, for students of classics (esp. Greek), theology, and related historical  disciplines. The focus is on language, literary form, relation to 'classical' literature, and historical contexts.  Topics vary.  Also offered as CAS CL 396. 		

CAS CN 510: Principles and Methods of Cognitive and Neural Modeling I
           			Explores psychological, biological, mathematical, and computational foundations of behavioral and brain modeling. Topics include organizational principles, mechanisms, local circuits, network architectures, cooperative and competitive non-linear feedback systems, associative learning systems, and self-organizing code-compression systems. The adaptive resonance theory model unifies many course themes. CAS CN 510 and 520 may be taken concurrently.		

CAS CN 520: Principles and Methods of Cognitive and Neural Modeling II
		Analyzes three main traditions in models of learning: unsupervised (self-organized) learning, supervised learning (learning with a teacher), and reinforcement learning. Architectures studied include adaptive filters, back propagation, competitive learning, self-organizing feature maps, gradient descent procedures, Boltzmann machines, simulated annealing, neocognitron, and gated dipoles. CAS CN 510 and 520 may be taken concurrently. 		

CAS CN 540: Neural and Computational Models of Adaptive Movement Planning and Control
		Neural models of eye, arm, hand, orofacial, and leg movements are presented and compared to reveal general organizational principles and specialized neural circuit designs for motor learning and performance. Issues include trajectory formation, synchronization of synergists, variable velocity control, adaptive gain control, map formation, load compensation, serial order, and inflow versus outflow as sources of sensory-motor information.		

CAS CN 560: Neural and Computational Models of Speech Perception and Production
		Develops neural network models of speech perception and production processes. Emphasis is placed on the role of learning and on the specialized neural designs that have evolved for purposes of speech communication. Practical, including industrial, applications of neural networks for speech processing are also reviewed.		

CAS CN 570: Neural and Computational Models of Conditioning, Reinforcement, Motivation, and Rhythm
           			Develops neural and computational models of how humans and animals learn to successfully predict environmental events and generate behavioral actions that satisfy internally defined criteria of success or failure. Reinforcement learning and its homeostatic (drive, arousal, rhythm) and nonhomeostatic (reinforcement) modulators are analyzed in depth. Recognition learning and recall learning networks are joined to the reinforcement learning network to analyze how these several processes cooperate to generate successful goal-oriented behavior. Maladaptive behaviors and certain mental disorders are analyzed from a unified theoretical perspective. Applications to the design of freely moving adaptive robots are noted. 		

