CAS IR 378: Intelligence in a Democratic Society
	The intelligence process and its role in democratic societies; the organization and functions of the U.S. intelligence community; techniques of intelligence collection, analysis, counterintelligence and covert action; assessment of problems and attempted solutions in the United States and other democracies. 		

CAS IR 380: American Foreign Policy: Practice and Process
	How U.S. foreign policy is made. After a historical introduction, focus on the external.bureaucratic, societal, and leadership forces that combine to shape broad policy lines and particular initiatives that produce feedback influencing the future.		

CAS IR 381: U.S.-Pakistan Relations
	Examines the history and current state of U.S.-Pakistan relations. Considers the political and strategic  complexities of the bilateral alliance as well as Pakistan's key role in the international relations of South  Asia, Central Asia, and the Muslim world.		

CAS IR 382: Understanding the Middle East
	Introduces the contemporary Middle East, including the Arab world, Iran, Israel, and Turkey; examines the systems of government; the role of external powers; the origins of the state system; the sources and objectives of opposition forces; the prospects for political reform, including democratization; and the prospects for future cooperation or conflict. 		

CAS IR 383: Understanding Modern North Africa
	Meets with CAS PO 376. Considers political, cultural, economic, and social developments in the modern  states of Morocco, Tunisia, Algeria, and Libya as they struggle to gain independence from colonial  domination and to consolidate viable, secure, and legitimate states and prosperous national communities.		

CAS IR 390: International Political Economy
           			Meets with CAS PO 329. Emphasizes the dynamic interaction between politics and economics to  understand and explain historical and contemporary issues in international political economy, including  international monetary, trade, investment, financial, and environmental relations. Considers emerging  challenges and structures in the international political economy.		

CAS IR 394: Power, Leadership, and Governance in Africa and the Caribbean
	(Meets with CAS AA 395 and HI 352.) Haitian Revolution; British Caribbean, leadership, governance, and power in Africa during the period of legitimate trade; visionaries, dictators, and nationalist politics in the Caribbean; chiefs, western elites, and nationalism in colonial Africa; road to governance in post-colonial Caribbean and Africa.		

CAS IR 395: North-South Relations
	(Meets with CAS PO 328.) Employs a multidisciplinary approach to analyze the relations between the industrialized nations of the "North" and the developing nations of the "South." Addresses historical and current issues in North-South relations, including trade, investment, migration, regional economic integration, and the environment. 		

CAS IR 410: Latin America Today: An Interdisciplinary Approach
           			Required for Latin American Interdisciplinary Studies Program majors and encouraged for minors. Topic changes annually.  		

CAS IR 411: Conflict and Conflict Resolution in Latin America
           			Meets with CAS PO 566. Examines a range of historical and contemporary conflicts and wars in Latin  America, both internal and regional, examining their causes and consequences, and the most important  factors that explain how they were resolved or why they persist. 		

CAS IR 425: Seminar: Women and Social Change in the Developing World
	(Meets with CAS SO 420.) Studies women in nonindustrial countries of Asia, Africa, and Latin America, stressing empirical research, theory, and methodology. Comparisons between regions and with industrial countries. Focus on sex segregation, female labor force participation, migration, fertility, family roles, and women and political power.		

CAS IR 430: Africa and Globalization: Opportunities and Obstacles
	Surveys political and economic trends and developments in sub-Saharan Africa from independence to the present, reviews current policy recommendations for Africa's integration into the global community, and compares Western and African policy recommendations for African development.		

CAS IR 436: The Great War and the Fragile Peace
	Exploration of the military, political, social, economic, and cultural consequences of the  First World War and the peace conference of 1919. Focuses on technological  innovations, the expanded role of the state, and the long-range impact of the Versailles  settlement. Also offered as CAS HI 436.		

CAS IR 441: Immigration and Development in Asia
	(Meets with CAS PO 458.) Transnational immigration and economic development in Asia, focusing on  China, India, and South Korea. Cases examined include the rise of manufacturing prowess in China, India's  software industry, and Korea's corporate competitiveness in the world.		

CAS IR 447: Seminar: Global Sociology
           			(Meets with CAS SO 447.) Examines different sociological perspectives on global social dynamics and  processes.		

CAS IR 452: Topics in European Politics and Culture
           			Meets with CAS PO 539. Explores European politics through the lens of culture, using materials from    literature, film, and the social sciences, including live sessions with European writers/artists. 		

CAS IR 465: The United States and the Cold War
	Examination of American Cold War foreign policy from its origins at the end of World War  II through its conduct--Marshall Plan, Detente, Cold War II--to the collapse of the Berlin  Wall and the Soviet Union. Reading seminar. Also offered as CAS HI 465.		

CAS IR 500: Topics in International Relations
	Examines various aspects of International Relations. Topics vary from semester to semester. Five topics    are offered Fall 2014. Students may take any number of sections for credit. Section A1: Principles of   International Negotiation. Focuses on the process of international negotiations using simulations,   exercises and games. Special emphasis on negotiation analysis, dynamics, strategy and tactics in the   international setting and in both bilateral and multilateral contexts. Issues of power, culture and   implementation also discussed. Section B1: Comparative Immigration and Racial Politics. Examines   immigration policies and domestic racial hierarchies across world regions and regime-types.   Investigates the role of immigration and racial hierarchy in economic development, state formation,   nationalism and electoral politics. Case studies include the US, Brazil, Britain, France, the UAE and Japan.   Section C1: Rise of BRICS &amp; the Global Economy. Why have some developing countries grown richer and   others poorer? What does the rise of countries like China mean for the economic fortunes of high-  income countries? Addresses these questions through developmental successes and disasters   throughout the world. Section D1: Cyber Conflict &amp; internet Freedom. (Meets with CAS CS 591 E1.)  Examines the problems confronting the world in addressing network and computer insecurity while  upholding privacy and civil liberties. While the U.S. has championed the "freedom-to-connect" as a  human right, it has also established a new military command for cyberspace. Section E1: Nuclear  Strategy. From the sling shot to the submarine, new weapons have given those deploying them critical  military advantage. But the destructive power and proliferation of nuclear weapons has challenged  mankind to seek ways of controlling them before it is too late.		

CAS IR 501: Conflict and Cooperation in Asia
           			Meets with CAS PO 554. Investigates patterns of conflict and cooperation in South and East Asia   surrounding issues ranging from water resources and health to borders and war. Analyzes how  such issues  contribute to instability in the region, as well as methods of cooperation.		

CAS IR 502: Latin American Political Parties
	Meets with CAS PO 561. Parties and party systems of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and Venezuela. Historical origins and labor incorporation. Populist, working-class, and hegemonic  parties. Market reform and party system transformation or collapse. Ethnic parties, clientelism, rise of a  new Left.		

