CAS PO 526: Global Justice
	Meets with CAS IR 523. Charts the course of human development over history and inquires why the quality  of life varies so dramatically in the world today. Geographic, economic, cultural, and political factors are  explored. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was  previously numbered CAS PO 523.		

CAS PO 528: Seminar: The Political Economy of Advanced Industrialized Societies
           			Meets with GRS IR 723. Surveys forces contributing to national differences in social and economic policy;  identifies current challenges to state sovereignty, such as globalization and immigration; and examines  how nations from different welfare state regimes are coping with these threats to the nation state. This  course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS PO 621.		

CAS PO 529: Globalization and Contemporary Capitalism in Advanced Industrialized Nations
	Meets with CAS IR 596. How has globalization affected national sovereignty and control? Competing   hypotheses are examined with specific reference to the internationalization of trade and the financial   markets, and its impact on the three postwar models of capitalism. This course cannot be taken for credit  in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 538.		

CAS PO 533: Globalization of Nationalism
	This course focuses on the problem of nationalism, distinguishing types, examining origins, and analyzing  political, social, and economic implications. Emphasis in Spring 2014 is on nationalism's spread into  eastern and southern Asia, specifically, the countries of Japan, China, and India.		

CAS PO 535: European Integration
	Meets with CAS IR 550. Assesses the meaning of "European Union" in its domestic, foreign policy, and  economic dimensions. To understand the opportunities and limits of cooperation and conflict, relevant  issue areas of European Community policy are discussed from a functionalist and realist perspective. This  course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS PO 525.		

CAS PO 536: Social Europe: Identity, Citizenship, and the Welfare State
           			Meets with CAS IR 551. The past, present and future of "social Europe." Impact of European  economic and political integration on national identities, cultures, politics, and citizenship; EU  policies affecting these social constructions; and changes over time in the welfare state. This  course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS PO 528.		

CAS PO 539: Topics in European Politics and Culture
           			Meets with CAS IR 452. Explores European politics through the lens of culture, using materials from  literature, film, and the social sciences, including live sessions with European writers/artists. Topic for Spring 2013: Critical Moments and Memory in Europe. Includes the shadows cast by the Holocaust, the  Spanish Civil War, the Cold War, and post-Communist transitions, as well as economic dislocations and  immigrations.  This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that  was previously numbered CAS PO 584.		

CAS PO 541: Seminar on European Politics
	Selected topics in European Politics: the political development of European states, the changing dynamics   of European party systems, the rise of the Radical Right, the politics of immigration, and questions of   nationalism, European identity and the future of the European Union. This course cannot be taken for  credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 561.		

CAS PO 542: Immigration: Politics and Policy
           			Immigration has become a subject of much debate and controversy in democratic polities. This course explores the politics, economics, and social consequences of immigration policies across a number of countries, including European states and the United States.		

CAS PO 544: Nordic Europe
	Meets with CAS IR 552. A brief historical overview of the region from the Viking Age to the emergence of   the modern states is followed by study of the Nordic countries with respect to the European Union, security   arrangements, and assistance to the developing world. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition  to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 529.		

CAS PO 548: Political Economy of China
	Meets with CAS IR 527. How did China implement economic reform? What were the progresses  and limitations? How is China's political-economic development influencing the global system?  Discussions are conducted in a comparative perspective. Countries of reference include Japan and  India. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was  previously numbered CAS PO 527.		

CAS PO 549: Problems and Issues in Post-Mao China
           			Meets with CAS IR 585.  An in-depth examination of politics in post-Mao China, this course  focuses on several critical issues, uses various conceptual frameworks to try to understand why  the reform process broke down and examines prospects for the future. This course cannot be  taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO  558.		

CAS PO 550: The State and Public Purpose in Asia
           			Meets with CAS IR 520. Explores how noncommunist Asian governments have attempted to  advance public purpose, and how organizational factors in countries' governments affect their  ability to do so. These questions are addressed in a comparative framework, considering theory  and cases. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that  was previously numbered CAS PO 562.		

CAS PO 552: Japan in International Politics
	Meets with CAS IR 579. International and domestic influences on Japan's international behavior in the past  as a predictor of Japan's future role in international politics. Covers Japan's role in the Cold War, post-war  Asia, and the management of the global economy. Examines viability of the post-Cold War U.S.-Japan  relationship. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was  previously numbered CAS PO 579.		

CAS PO 553: Taiwan: Politics and Transformation
	Meets with CAS IR 582. Examines Taiwan's history, economic development, ethnic identity,  democratization, and its controversial position in international politics as a key to understanding questions  of political economy, democratic transition, and East Asian security. This course cannot be taken for credit  in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 582.		

CAS PO 554: Conflict and Cooperation in Asia
	Meets with CAS IR 501. Investigates patterns of conflict and cooperation in South and East Asia  surrounding issues ranging from water resources and health to borders and war. Analyzes how  such issues contribute to instability in the region, as well as methods of cooperation. This course  cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS PO 530.		

CAS PO 556: Islam in Middle East Politics
	Meets with CAS IR 509. Analysis of Islam in the classical and popular forms; examination of the  role of the Muslim religion in the internal politics of the modern Middle East, especially Iran,  Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Lebanon, Syria, Iraq, and Libya; their interrelationships and their  attitudes toward the West.  This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with  the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 573.		

CAS PO 557: The Political Economy of National Security
	(Meets with GRS IR 610.) A seminar considering the relationship between economics and national security.  The principal theme is the way economic factors fundamentally influence the national security of states,  and the way those factors shape and constrain the strategies chosen to pursue that security.		

CAS PO 558: War and Society in the Modern Age
	This course takes a state-oriented approach to understanding war in the modern age (as distinct from  focusing on segments of the armed forces). How states fight wars and how changes in warfare affect the  relationship between state and society.		

CAS PO 561: Latin American Political Parties
	Meets with CAS IR 502. Parties and party systems of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru,  and Venezuela. Historical origins and labor incorporation. Populist, working-class, and hegemonic parties.  Market reform and party system transformation or collapse. Ethnic parties, clientelism, rise of a new Left.  This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS PO 509.		

