CAS LG 283: The Faust Tradition
           			Comparative study of the Faust theme, 1500 to present: Marlowe, Goethe, Mann, Gertrude Stein, Jan Svankmajer, others. Transmission and adaptation of literary themes within and between national traditions. Emphasis on close reading and research, use of theory and criticism. Meets with CAS XL 351. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS LG 303: Composition and Conversation I
           			Increased sophistication in speaking German through simulation and role playing as well as in writing German through regular compositions  and journal entries. Grammar review; practice in pronunciation,  comprehension, conversation, vocabulary, and written expression.  Discussion of contemporary topics, conducted in German. 		

CAS LG 304: Composition and Conversation II
           			Increased sophistication in speaking German through simulation and role playing as well as in writing German through regular compositions and journal entries. Grammar review; practice in pronunciation, comprehension, conversation, vocabulary, and written expression. Discussion of contemporary topics, conducted in German. 		

CAS LG 315: Introduction to German Linguistics
           			Introduction to major subfields of German linguistics: phonetics/ phonology, morphology, syntax,  semantics, historical linguistics, regional variation, and sociolinguistic aspects such as gender and English  influence. Includes familiarization with Middle High German. Course also aims to improve students'  German proficiency and pronunciation. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS LG 325: Modern German History and Culture through Film
           			Presentation of cultural differences between East and West Germany leading to reunification and beyond. Screenings of works by Fassbinder, Herzog, Schlöndorff, Sanders-Brahms, Dörrie, Wenders, and Tykwer. Texts on film art in different historical contexts. Discussions and essays in German.		

CAS LG 345: German for Business and Economics
           			Introduction to the language of business and to the German economy within the context of European integration and globalization. Includes online research, group projects, skits, and panel discussions.		

CAS LG 350: Introduction to German Literature
           			Masterpieces of German literature representing major eras and genres from the eighteenth century to the present. Practical introduction to methods of close reading and literary interpretation; class discussion. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS LG 387: Weimar Cinema (taught in English)
	German silent and early sound films from Caligari to Hitler, viewed in the aesthetic context of contemporary and recent film theory and criticism and in the broader cultural context of the interwar  Weimar Republic (1918--1933), with international points of comparison. Weekly screenings. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS LG 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LG 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LG 403: Fourth-Year German: Vocabulary and Idiom
           			Advanced study of German idiomatic usage and subtleties of grammar in cultural context, aiming to increase students' range and accuracy of expression in speech and writing. Texts from contemporary media, popular music, literature, film. Frequent short essays.		

CAS LG 450: Origins of German Culture
           			Survey of major developments in the cultural history of German-speaking countries, from the Middle Ages  through the Enlightenment.  Literature, expository texts, music, art and architecture, and their influence on  contemporary cultural debates.  Course conducted in German.		

CAS LG 453: Romanticism
           			Poetry and prose of major authors (Tieck, Novalis, Schlegel, Brentano, Günderode,  Eichendorff, Hoffmann), their connection to music and art and to German Idealism.  Emergence of the fairy-tale. Women and the literary salons.		

CAS LG 456: Twentieth-Century Culture: Since 1945
	Survey of postwar and contemporary German-language literature in its cultural-historical context. The Nazi past and the Holocaust; the economic rise of West Germany and accompanying disillusionment; East Germany's socialist ideal and reality; German reunification; women's voices; migrant literature. 		

CAS LG 491: Directed Study: German
           			Application form available in department.		

CAS LG 492: Directed Study: German
           			Application form available in department.		

CAS LH 111: Fundamentals of Modern Hebrew 1
	For students with no previous knowledge of Hebrew or minimal background. Introduction to the language of contemporary Israel. Fundamentals of grammar, extensive practice in speaking, reading, and writing about topics such as getting acquainted, learning and living situations. Curriculum incorporates technology and original Israeli materials.		

