CAS LF 112: Second-Semester French
           			Continues CAS LF 111. A multimedia approach which develops speaking, reading, writing, and listening skills, together with the grammar and vocabulary needed for more complex communicative tasks. 		

CAS LF 113: Intensive Beginning French
           			Intensive French course for beginners or according to placement test results. Introduction to grammar, vocabulary, and structure of French, emphasizing the basic communication skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing. (If CAS LF 111, 112, 123, 131, 132, or a more advanced college-level course has been completed, this course cannot be taken for credit.)		

CAS LF 211: Third-Semester French
           			Authentic literary selections by writers from diverse Francophone countries, cultural readings, and  discussion of short-subject films by francophone filmmakers, accompanied by advanced study of grammar  and emphasis on communicative skills.		

CAS LF 212: Fourth-Semester French
           			Refines the four skills through in-depth study of a modern novel. Creative oral and written exercises based on the novel and study of advanced grammar. Viewing of contemporary French films. Fulfills CAS language requirement, prepares for further study (LF 303).  		

CAS LF 303: French Composition and Conversation I
           			Discussion of literary texts by classic and contemporary writers and of films on pertinent cultural themes. Development of spoken and written French and aural comprehension. Review of advanced grammar. 		

CAS LF 304: Composition and Conversation II
           			Develops increased fluency and a more nuanced use of spoken and written French through discussion of contemporary fiction and film. Reading of articles from the press to explore current and historical issues in French society. 		

CAS LF 305: Advanced Written Expression
           			Intensive study of the art of writing. Development of individual style through explications de texte, free composition, and written reports. Reading and discussion of manuscripts; translation and transcription; individual projects and conferences.		

CAS LF 306: Advanced Oral Expression
           			Advanced training in rapid and idiomatic French speech. Oral reports. Role playing; vocabulary building; targeted work on pronunciation, intonation, and aural comprehension. Lab required.		

CAS LF 341: Topics in Contemporary French Culture
           			Through current articles and headlines, films, songs and French comedians, this class explores the  meaning and preservation of French "Culture"; looks into areas of social debate from a French perspective;  and considers the identity crisis generated by globalization.		

CAS LF 348: France Past to Postmodern: French Civilization Through Film
           			Examines France's classic cultural symbols and evolution from monarchy into the revolutionary nation that introduced notions of Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity. Survey of events in today's post-modern and post-colonial state. Uses film, video, articles to explore contemporary culture and politics. 		

CAS LF 350: Introduction to Analysis of French Texts
           			Development of techniques for reading and interpreting French literary  texts. Special attention to the study of lyric poetry, drama, and short narrative. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS LF 351: Introduction to the French Novel
           			Close readings in the French novel from its origins to the nouveau roman. Attention to narration, themes, symbols, and schools. Investigation of the roman d'analyse, Romantic prose, realist fiction, and other types of narrative. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS LF 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LF 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LF 452: The Age of Versailles
           			Seventeenth-century developments in classical theater, the novel, poetry, and fairy tales in relation to the  vision of an all-powerful monarchy. Creative responses to a culture of constraint, as seen in works of  Corneille, Racine, Molière, La Fayette, La Fontaine, Aulnoy. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS LF  562.		

CAS LF 453: The French Enlightenment
           			Topic for Fall 2014: Theaters of Deception. Paradoxes of the theater. Topics include: the spectator's deception and theatrical illusion; the actor's complicity and craft in generating emotions; conflicts between Church, State, and theater. Features student theater performances. Authors studied: Corneille, Molière, Rotrou, Marivaux, and Diderot.		

