CAS EC 369: Economic Development of Latin America
           			Contemporary issues of economic and social policy. Macroeconomic issues: inflation, stabilization, and the debt crisis. Foreign trade and economic restructuring. Poverty and income distribution. Role of the state. 		

CAS EC 370: The Chinese Economy
           			Introduces the working of the Chinese economy. Combines historical-institutional and theoretical- quantitative approaches to study the transformation of China's economy into a market economy with  special characteristics.		

CAS EC 371: Environmental Economics
           			Role of economics in environmental planning. Economic analysis of the causes of pollution and its control through taxes, the use of property rights, and standards. Application of cost-benefit models as an aid in policy decisions affecting the environment. 		

CAS EC 377: Government, Business, and Labor
           			Examines economic growth from the perspective of the structure, conduct, and performance of business. Combines economic theories of conduct and strategy with industry case studies and evaluates the effect of government policy toward business and labor on the performance of the economy. 		

CAS EC 385: Economics of Sports
           			Applies the tools of microeconomic theory and empirical methods to study such questions as the optimal  design of sports leagues, the impact of new stadiums on a local economy, fan (customer) discrimination,  and salary differentials between players. 		

CAS EC 387: Introduction to Health Economics
           			Concepts of health economics applicable to both developed and developing countries. Topics include effect of health on the economy, effect of health care on health, hospital behavior, health work-force supply, and demand for health care. 		

CAS EC 391: International Economics I
           			The pure theory of international trade. Topics include comparative advantage and gains from trade, tariff and nontariff barriers to trade, and case studies in international economic policy. 		

CAS EC 392: International Economics II: Problems and Policy
           			Basic issues of international finance. Topics include the balance of payments, balance of payments adjustments, theories of exchange rate determination, and case studies in international economic policy. 		

CAS EC 401: Senior Independent Work
			

CAS EC 402: Senior Independent Work
			

CAS EC 403: Game Theory
           			Models of decision-making in which the choices of different individuals interact:  basic equilibrium notions in normal form games, including signaling games and repeated games.  Applications include auctions, foreign policy, takeover bids, entry deterrence, cooperation and conflict, financial markets, and public goods.  		

CAS EC 404: Economics of Information
           			Introduction to the field of information economics and its applications. Covers a wide range of situations in which players have access to different private information and this private information differently affects their incentives and strategic behavior. 		

CAS EC 436: Economics of Corporate Organization
           			Economic analysis of the architecture of firms and other organizations. Topics include firm boundaries, the allocation of ownership and control, integration and outsourcing, corporate governance, performance evaluation, and compensation.		

CAS EC 445: Economics of Risk and Uncertainty
           			For advanced undergraduates. Emphasis on quantitative links between theory and data. Topics include expected utility, portfolio choice and the capital asset pricing model, interest rates and monetary policy, the relation between the real economy and the stock market.		

CAS EC 491: Directed Study in Economics
			

CAS EC 492: Directed Study in Economics
			

CAS EC 501: Microeconomic Theory
           			Covers the basic concepts and techniques of microeconomic theory. Topics include consumer demand and its foundation on preferences and budget constraints, economics of uncertainty and imperfect information, production theory, applied competitive equilibrium analysis, elementary game theory, and imperfect competition. 		

CAS EC 502: Macroeconomic Theory
