CAS CH 220: Organic Chemistry Laboratory with Qualitative Analysis
           			Laboratory methods in organic chemistry including multistep synthesis, organic qualitative analysis, and  instrumental analysis. Equivalent to the laboratory part of CAS CH 212. One hour lecture, four hours lab.		

CAS CH 232: Inorganic Chemistry
           			The relation of atomic and molecular structure to chemical properties. Bronsted and Lewis acid/base behavior; redox reactions; bonding and reactions of main group elements; d-metal complexes, including bonding, spectra, and reaction mechanisms; and organometallic chemistry. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, four hours lab. 		

CAS CH 273: Principles of Biochemistry
           			Biomolecules in aqueous systems. Composition, structure, and function of proteins, nucleic acids, and   polysaccharides. Information transfer from DNA to RNA and proteins. Bioenergetic principles in glycolysis,   oxidative energy metabolism, and selected biosynthetic paths. Applications to medicine, nutrition, and   biotechnology. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion.		

CAS CH 291: Undergraduate Research in Chemistry II
           			See CAS CH 191, 192 for description. 		

CAS CH 292: Undergraduate Research in Chemistry II
           			See CAS CH 191, 192 for description. 		

CAS CH 301: Chemical Synthesis and Analysis
           			Combined lecture/laboratory course that introduces fundamental methods of synthesis and analysis current in chemical research. Applications include topics in organocatalysis, asymmetric synthesis and organometallic chemistry, and spectroscopy. Eight hours lab plus three hours lecture.		

CAS CH 303: Instrumental Analysis Laboratory
           			Fundamental theoretical principles, capabilities, applications, and limitations of modern analytical  instrumentation with laboratory in spectroscopy and analytical chromatography. One hour lecture, six  hours lab (single session).		

CAS CH 351: Physical Chemistry I
           			Quantum Theory, atomic and molecular structure, molecular spectroscopy, statistical mechanics, solid state chemistry. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion.		

CAS CH 352: Physical Chemistry II
           			Thermodynamics, equilibrium, chemical kinetics. Applications include electrochemistry, phase transitions, catalysis, aqueous solutions, and polymers. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion.		

CAS CH 354: Physical Chemistry Laboratory
           			Experiments in thermodynamics, electrochemistry, chemical equilibrium, chemical kinetics, and  spectroscopy. Applications and principles of electronics and instrumental design and applications of  computers. Statistics and error analysis of laboratory data. Six hours lab plus prelab lecture.		

CAS CH 391: Undergraduate Research in Chemistry III
           			See CAS CH 191, 192 for description. 		

CAS CH 392: Undergraduate Research in Chemistry III
           			See CAS CH 191, 192 for description. 		

CAS CH 401: Honors Research in Chemistry
           			Minimum 16 hours per week of experimental or theoretical research, within a chemistry department  research group or in another approved research group  (outside the department) that is undertaking  research in the chemical sciences. An Honors thesis is submitted at the end of the spring semester and  defended before a committee of three faculty members. A grade of B or higher is required in both CAS  CH 401 and CAS CH 402 in order to graduate with Honors in the Major in Chemistry. An oral  presentation at the Undergraduate Research Symposium at the end of the spring semester is also  required.		

CAS CH 402: Honors Research in Chemistry
           			Minimum 16 hours per week of experimental or theoretical research, within a chemistry department  research group or in another approved research group  (outside the department) that is undertaking  research in the chemical sciences. An Honors thesis is submitted at the end of the spring semester and  defended before a committee of three faculty members. A grade of B or higher is required in both CAS  CH 401 and CAS CH 402 in order to graduate with Honors in the Major in Chemistry. An oral  presentation at the Undergraduate Research Symposium at the end of the spring semester is also  required.		

CAS CH 421: Biochemistry I
           			Introductory biochemistry. Protein structure and folding, enzyme mechanisms, kinetics, and allostery; nucleic acid structure; lipids and membrane structure; bioenergetics; vitamins and coenzymes; introduction to intermediary metabolism. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, four hours lab. 		

CAS CH 422: Biochemistry II
           			Polysaccharides, energy storage and recognition; intermediary metabolism; lipid and isoprene metabolism;  nitrogen metabolism; nucleotide metabolism, macromolecular biosynthesis with emphasis on specificity  and fidelity in the mechanisms of RNA, DNA, and protein synthesis. Three hours lecture, one hour  discussion, four hours lab.		

