CAS SO 444: Seminar: Sociology of Education
           			Explores how learning is executed in different settings and persons are selected to fit in various parts of our culture and how the institution of education contributes to social stability and change.  Contemporary educational reforms are reviewed and their effects are analyzed.		

CAS SO 447: Seminar: Global Sociology
           			(Meets with CAS IR 447.) Examines different sociological perspectives on global social dynamics and  processes.		

CAS SO 448: Culture, Markets, and Inequality
           			This seminar examines commerce as a cultural process, focusing on cultural production and consumption practices in fields like fashion, music, and bodily goods and services. Traces the cultural construction and  maintenance of gender, race, and class inequalities in markets.		

CAS SO 450: Seminar: Technology and Society
	Technologies in the four areas of knowledge, work, transportation, and biology are discussed in terms of  their historical development and social implications. Benefits and costs of technology are examined with  reference to current conflicts over use and misuse.		

CAS SO 452: Contemporary Debates in Sexualities Research
           			Engages debates about sexual identities, practices, and communities, conceptualizing sexuality as both a social construct and an institution. Students consider how sexualities operate across social contexts, their effects on systems of inequalities, and their intersections with race, class, and gender.		

CAS SO 462: Seminar: Great Theorists
           			This seminar examines the ideas of Montesquieu, Saint-Simon, Wollstonecraft, Tocqueville, Martineau, Spencer, Pareto, Veblen, Simmel, and Du Bois through critiques of these seminal concepts: "relative  deprivation," "the survival of the fittest," "conspicuous consumption," "the circulation of elites," and "double consciousness."		

CAS SO 491: Directed Study
           			Individual instruction and supervised study project in sociology for concentrators and nonconcentrators.		

CAS SO 492: Directed Study
           			Individual instruction and supervised study project in sociology for concentrators and nonconcentrators.		

CAS SO 541: Modernity Seminar I
           			This seminar looks at the phenomenon of modernity from a multidisciplinary point of view. Discussed   are the cultural foundations of modernity, specifically and primarily nationalism but also Romanticism,   science, and major political ideologies. Also analyzed are modernization and development as studied by   the social sciences, modernism, and postmodernism in literary and cultural studies; and the nature of   human beings and society in the perspectives of modern philosophy. Also offered as CAS AN 541. Either  or both of SO 541 and SO 543 may be taken for credit.  		

CAS SO 543: Modernity Seminar II
           			This seminar looks at the phenomenon of modernity from a multidisciplinary point of view. Discussed  are the cultural foundations of modernity, specifically and primarily nationalism but also Romanticism,  science, and major political ideologies. Also analyzed are modernization and development as studied by  the social sciences, modernism, and postmodernism in literary and cultural studies; and the nature of  man and society in the perspectives of modern philosophy. Also offered as CAS AN 543. Either or both of SO 541 and SO 543 may be taken for credit. 		

CAS SY 101: Senior Year Career Development ( Identifying, Pursuing and Landing a Job)
	SY101 will help seniors develop a plan of action for pursuing the right fit beyond graduation. Students will do self-assessment to help focus their search, identify potential employers, build effective resumes and cover letters, strengthen networking and interviewing skills and develop and individualized plan of action.		

CAS WR 097: English Grammar and Composition (ESL only)
           			Study of conventions of academic writing along with review of grammar and mechanics. Emphasis on  comprehension, summary, and critical analysis of a wide range of readings. Focus on accuracy and fluency  in writing and speaking. Frequent papers and in-class writing.		

CAS WR 098: Introduction to College Reading and Writing in English (ESL only)
           			Emphasis on critical reading and analytical writing. Review of grammar and mechanics in context.  Intensive practice in the patterns of academic argumentation. Various theme-based readings. Multiple  writing assignments of increasing complexity. Refinement of speaking skills through discussions and oral  presentations.		

CAS WR 100: Writing Seminar
           			Topic-based seminar in academic reading and writing. Attention to reading and analyzing primary and  secondary sources, argumentation, prose style, revision, and citation. Significant writing and individual  conferences.		

CAS WR 150: Writing and Research Seminar
           			Topic-based seminar in academic reading, writing, and research. Continuing attention to argumentation,  prose style, revision, and citation, with additional emphasis on college-level research. Significant writing  and individual conferences.		

CAS WR 202: Children's Literature in the Elementary School
	An introduction to the world of children's literature. Classics and exemplary modern works are studied,  with a particular focus on literary techniques, nonfiction text structures, cultural diversity, and gender.  Covers children's literature recommended by Massachusetts English Language Arts Framework (2001).   		

CAS WR 598: Tutoring in ESL
	Prepares Writing Center tutors to work effectively with ESL and multilingual students. Modules balance  theory and practice. Tutors gain knowledge about ESL writing and pedagogical ability to help students  become independent writers. No familiarity with linguistics or language teaching required.		

CAS WS 101: Gender and Sexuality I: An Interdisciplinary Introduction
