CAS PH 468: Philosophical Problems of Logic and Mathematics
           			Selected traditional metaphysical and epistemological problems in the light of modern logic and various studies in the foundations of mathematics, including the nature of the axiomatic method, completeness in logic and mathematics, and the nature of mathematical truth. 		

CAS PH 470: Philosophy of Physics
           			Philosophical problems concerning the interpretation of physical discoveries. Elementary particles, the anomalies of quantum mechanics, some modern problems of space and time, and the problem of wholes and parts. 		

CAS PH 472: Philosophy of Biology
           			Conceptual problems in biology; unity or pluralism of science; hierarchy theory; biological explanation; evolutionary theory, teleology and casuality, statistical explanation; the species problem; mind and the brain; and language in animals and humans.		

CAS PH 477: Philosophy of the Social Sciences
	Topics in the philosophy of the social sciences such as the interpretation of human action and the objectivity of social inquiry. Social consideration of alternative theoretic viewpoints such as naturalism and interpretivism.   		

CAS PH 480: Topics in Ancient and Medieval Philosophy
	Topic for Fall 2010: TBA.		

CAS PH 482: Topics in Modern and Contemporary Philosophy
           			Topics vary from semester to semester; may be repeated for credit as topics change. Topic for Spring  2013: Heidegger. A careful reading of Heidegger's major work, Being and Time. The end of the course  looks at some of Heidegger's shorter works written later in his career, in order to consider some of the  directions of his famous "turn."		

CAS PH 485: Topics in Philosophy of Value
	Topics vary from year to year. Topic for Fall 2014: Happiness, East and West. What is happiness? How can   we achieve a balanced, healthy, fulfilling life? Classical thinkers such as Aristotle, Plato, Chuang Tzu;   Buddhist, Confucian, Epicurean, and Stoic paths; comparison with contemporary studies of happiness. Also  offered as CAS RN 452.		

CAS PH 487: Topics in the Philosophy of Science
           			A discussion-based introduction to core issues in the philosophy of science, focusing on the topics of  scientific realism, theory change, reductionism, explanation, models, and natural kinds.		

CAS PH 491: Directed Study
           			Individual or small group tutorial instruction and directed research on selected topics.		

CAS PH 492: Directed Study
           			Individual or small group tutorial instruction and directed research on selected topics.		

CAS PO 111: Introduction to American Politics
	Undergraduate core course. Study of the national political structure; emphasis on Congress, the executive, administrative agencies, and the judiciary. Relations between formal institutions, parties, and interest  groups. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to  the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 211.		

CAS PO 141: Introduction to Public Policy
	Undergraduate core course. Analysis of several issue areas: civil rights, school desegregation, welfare and social policy, education and urban housing, energy and the environment. Characteristics of policy systems in each issue area are analyzed to identify factors which may affect the content and implementation of public policies. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course by the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 241. 		

CAS PO 151: Introduction to Comparative Politics
	Undergraduate core course. Meets with CAS IR 251. Examines different patterns of political development  and contemporary politics in Western Europe, Latin America, Africa, and the former Soviet bloc. Introduces  the comparative method in political science and competing theories of political development and political  change. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was  previously numbered CAS PO 251.		

CAS PO 171: Introduction to International Relations
	(Meets with CAS IR 271.) Undergraduate core course. Study of basic factors in international relations, Western state system, balance of power, nationalism, and imperialism. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 271.		

CAS PO 172: Freshman Seminar in International Relations
	Freshman seminar version of CAS PO 171. Study of foundational theories in international relations, peace  and conflict, nationalism, and imperialism. Students may not receive credit for both CAS PO 172 and CAS  PO 171 or CAS IR 271. CAS PO 172 does not replace CAS IR 271. Carries social science divisional credit in  CAS.		

CAS PO 191: Introduction to Political Theory
	Major works of political philosophy are considered, to address fundamental questions of political life. Looks at different conceptions of authority, justice, liberty, and equality, including how they justify and define government, law, and rights and how they pertain to current issues. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course by the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 291. 		

CAS PO 301: Presidential Leadership
	Presidential power and functions; relations with Congress, political party, and the public; personality and  leadership; and comparative study of selected presidents. This course cannot be taken for credit in  addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 317.		

CAS PO 302: Congress and Its Critics
           			Is Congress the "broken branch"? Can it be fixed? How congress works; legislative process; interactions  with other branches; congressional elections; campaign finance; how Congress has changed and may  evolve in the future. This course  cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the title "The  Legislative Process in America" that was previously numbered CAS PO 311.		

CAS PO 304: The Judicial Process
           			Introduction to the judicial process. Topics include the role of lawyers and judges, the structure of the  court system, juries, and legal reasoning. Primarily intended for students who have little or no exposure to  law courses.  This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with  the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 315. (Offered alternate years.)		

CAS PO 306: Media and Politics in the United States
