CAS IR 330: Diplomatic Practice
	Introduces the practice of diplomacy as management of a country's foreign relations with a view to secure or restore peace. The nation state in diplomatic relations; foreign ministries, diplomatic missions, embassies, and consulates; the peacekeeping role of international law and international government organizations. 		

CAS IR 333: Non-State Actors in International Relations
	Meets with CAS PO 327. Examines the important role of non-state actors in international relations. Non- state actors include subnational governments, international organizations, multinational corporations,  non-governmental organizations, religious groups, violent groups, for-profit security firms, social  movements, and grassroots organizations.		

CAS IR 341: Central Europe
	Intellectual, cultural, political, diplomatic, and military history of the region between Germany and Russia from the end of the Middle Ages to the present. Also offered as CAS HI 278.		

CAS IR 349: History of International Relations, 1900 to 45
	Meets with CAS HI 332. The causes and consequences of the First World War; the search for postwar   reconstruction and stability during the twenties; economic collapse, revolutionary nationalism, and fascism   during the 1930s; the Second World War and the advent of the bipolar world.		

CAS IR 350: History of International Relations since 1945
	Meets with CAS HI 334. The causes and consequences of the Soviet-American Cold War from its origins in  Europe to its extension to Asia, Africa, and Latin America. The rise of the multipolar international system,  the emergence of the nonaligned blocs, and inter-and intra-alliance conflicts. 		

CAS IR 351: Africa in International Politics
	Meets with CAS PO 377. Introduction to the international relations of post-colonial Africa. Core themes   include the politics of post-independence international alignments, the external causes and effects of   authoritarian rule, and Africa's role in the global political economy.		

CAS IR 352: International Human Rights: Applying Human Rights in Africa
	Meets with CAS PO 378. Studies the growing international influence on politics of human rights principles,  documents, and organizations, drawing especially on African cases such as Congo, Zimbabwe, and Sudan.  Topics include universality vs. cultural relativism, individual vs. group rights, and issues in human rights  enforcement. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was  previously numbered CAS IR 580.		

CAS IR 360: Making Sense of the World: The Conceptual Foundations of International Relations
	(Meets with CAS PO 383.) Introduction to various analytical approaches for understanding the dynamics of  global interaction. Explores the variety of "worlds" made visible through the lens of theory. Fosters critical  thinking about how conceptual tools shape our understanding of the world and attempted solutions to global problems. 		

CAS IR 362: European Politics
	Meets with CAS PO 341. Comparative study of politics in member states of the European Union, with  emphasis on  political development, institutions, major issues in contemporary politics, and the impact  of  European integration. Selective references to original and new member states of the EU. 		

CAS IR 363: Soviet Politics 1917-91
	Meets with CAS PO 370. Analysis of the structure of major political institutions - government bureaucracy,  Communist party, and others - and policy-society relations during the seventy-four years of the USSR's  existence. Prime focus is institutional rather than historical, and deals with the Soviet politics "game" as it  was played.		

CAS IR 364: Politics of Post-Communist Russia
	(Meets with CAS PO 371.) Analysis of the emergent political forces, institutions, and alliances in the post- Soviet Russian Federation, against the background of the unresolved economic, ethnic, and social  problems that are the USSR's legacy to the "new Russia." Prospects for stabilization are assessed in the  context of the multiple crises facing Russia today. 		

CAS IR 365: Rise of China
	(Meets with CAS PO 352.) China's political, economic, and strategic development since the late nineteenth  century, with emphasis on the period since 1949. Examines three questions: In what ways is China rising?  How did it happen? What are the impacts of China's rise on the U.S. and the global system?		

CAS IR 367: Introduction to Latin American Politics and International Relations
	(Meets with CAS PO 360.) Introduction to the patterns and complexities of Latin American politics and foreign policies. Focuses on the distinctive Latin American political experience and alternative explanation for it, including colonization, the international economy, and human and material resource capacity and utilization.		

CAS IR 368: Contemporary East Asian Economics
           			Meets with CAS EC 368. An introduction to the economic history and institutions of Japan, Korea, Taiwan,  and China. Topics include structural change, trade, labor markets, corporate organization, financial  systems, and macroeconomic and industrial policy.		

CAS IR 369: Southeast Asia in World Politics
           			Meets with CAS PO 354. Examines Southeast Asia as an important emerging political, economic, and security region in world politics. Background materials, including the region's history, cultural diversity,   and geo-strategic position, are given weight in the course. 		

CAS IR 370: China: From Revolution to Reform
	(Meets with CAS PO 351.) Introduction to modern Chinese politics including the development of the  Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and the political development of the PRC since its founding in 1949. Focus  is on the party's official policy and its changing relationships with the people of China.		

CAS IR 372: International Relations of South Asia
	Meets with CAS PO 355. Introduction to South Asia and regional conflict and cooperation. Focus on India,  Pakistan, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Sri Lanka inter-state relations; great power interventions; power   distributions; norms; political, military, and economic conflict and cooperation.		

CAS IR 373: Global Governance and International Organization
	Meets with CAS PO 384. Provides an overview of major theoretical perspectives on the creation and  function of international organizations, comparative case studies of selected organizations, and an  examination of present and future roles of international organizations in selected issue areas.		

CAS IR 375: Introduction to Russian and Post-Soviet Relations
	(Meets with CAS PO 372.) Decisive factors in the foreign relations of Russia and the other former Soviet republics, including historical continuity and change, survival and change of ideology, domestic politics, economic and geographical factors, military and external political considerations. The future of arms control, nuclear weapons, the economy, and relations among the former republics are also examined.  		

CAS IR 376: American Foreign Policy Since 1945
	(Meets with CAS HI 288.) America's tradition and heritage in foreign policy. American foreign policy during  the Cold War. Conflicting approaches to the formulation of American foreign policy in the current  international environment. Domestic and institutional actors in policy formulation: Congress, media,  Presidency, CIA, military.		

