CAS HI 364: Modern Chinese History
	Since 1600, China experienced Manchu imperial expansion, conflict with the West, two revolutions, and the construction of a socialist society now dominated by authoritarian capitalism. Explores the interplay between enduring traditions, upheaval and modernity and their consequences for our world. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course entitled "Introduction to Modern Chinese History" that was previously numbered CAS HI 390.		

CAS HI 365: Shanghai: The Key to Modern China?
           			The social, cultural, political, and economic history of Shanghai is used as a lens to understand the making  of modern China. Themes include the role of the city's colonial past in shaping its history. Students visit  significant sights and museums. Also offered as CAS IR 371 E. This course cannot be taken for credit in  addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 387.		

CAS HI 369: Introduction to Modern Japanese History
	Developments from late Tokugawa Japan and the Meiji Restoration (1868) to the present. Focus on Japan's  economic, political, and social adjustment to modern times, the evolution of twentieth century Japanese  imperialism, and Japan's growth after World War II. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 391.		

CAS HI 370: The Samurai in Myth and History
	Explores how samurai, Japan's (in)famous warrior class, defined themselves, and how others have portrayed them in literature, art, plays, film, and animation from ancient times to the present. Investigates why samurai ideals have become the most widely recognized Japanese "tradition." Also offered as CAS LJ 282. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 381.		

CAS HI 377: The Sword, the Cross, and the Crescent: Byzantium and the Near East
	Examines Byzantine society and culture, focusing on conflicts and cooperation with the Islamic East until 1453, when Muslim Ottomans captured Constantinople and radically altered life and politics in the eastern Mediterranean. Explores lessons from Byzantine-Muslim relations for the twenty-first century. 		

CAS HI 379: Modern Armenian History and Literature
	Introduction to modern Armenian history and literature from the nineteenth-century "cultural renaissance" to the upheavals of the twentieth century--genocide, independence, and Sovietization--and the literatures of Soviet Armenia and the diaspora. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 277.		

CAS HI 382: Turko-Persia in the Twentieth Century
	The twentieth-century history of the non-Arab Muslim Middle East, i.e., Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan, and Central Asia. Analysis of the constitutional revolutions in Turkey and Iran, Kemalism, the Islamic revolution in Iran, and communism in the Soviet Union and Afghanistan. Also offered as CAS IR 328. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 398.  		

CAS HI 383: Modern History and Geopolitics of the Caucasus
	Surveys history of the Caucasus with a focus on Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Georgia, from the early nineteenth century to the post-Soviet period. Explores advantages and problems of modernization, nationalism, and major power geopolitics within the context of international political economy. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 399. 		

CAS HI 384: History of Genocide
	History and comparative analysis of genocidal mass murder with focus on the twentieth century. Hereros, Armenians, holomodor, Holocaust, Cambodia, Rwanda, Darfur. Attention to political leaders, state ideology, dehumanization of victim groups, geopolitical competition, war, empire building and decline.		

CAS HI 387: Introduction to the Middle East
           			General introduction to the history, culture, and current development in the Middle East. Objective is to introduce students to a specific geographical and historical experience, as well as to acquaint them with some of the literature in the field. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the  same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 392.		

CAS HI 389: Americans and the Middle East
	Examines the intersecting histories of America and the Middle East from the late eighteenth century to the present, focusing first on American missionary and educational efforts in the region and then on American political and military involvement after World War II. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 393.		

CAS HI 392: The History of Israel: An Introduction
	Using a broad array of readings, popular music, documentaries, film and art, this course explores Israel's  political system, culture, and society, including the status of minorities in the Jewish state; post-1967  Israeli settlement projects; and the struggle for Israel's identity. Meets with CAS LH 284.		

CAS HI 393: Topics in the History of Israel
	Special topics in the history of Israel. Topics differ from year to year. Topic for Fall 2013: The Israeli-Palestinian Conflict. The challenges of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, historical trajectories, conflicting narratives,and possible solutions through primary sources and film. Students present reflections on the history of the conflict, debate its future implications, and discuss challenges both societies are facing.		

CAS HI 394: U.S.-Mexican Borders
	Examines the geographic border, as well as political and cultural boundaries inside Mexico and the U.S.,  from 1848 to the present. Topics include immigration, Mexican-American culture and politics, the Chicano  Movement, economic development, gangs, the drug trade, music and art.		

CAS HI 397: Modern Latin America
	Political, economic, and cultural evolution of Latin American republics. Nineteenth-century conflicts over "civilization" vs "barbarism," liberalism vs conservatism, and slavery. Democracy and military rule in the twentieth century and efforts to create new forms of politics and citizenship. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 386.		

CAS HI 401: Senior Honors Seminar 1
           			The first of a two-semester seminar that guides students through the research and writing of an honors  thesis grounded in primary historical research. Students participate in a workshop environment and are  matched with an additional faculty advisor.		

CAS HI 402: Senior Honors Seminar 2
           			The second of a two-semester seminar that guides students through the research and writing of an honors  thesis grounded in primary historical research. Students participate in a workshop environment and are  matched with an additional faculty advisor.		

CAS HI 406: Monks, Friars, and Saints
           			Examines various aspects of the concept of holiness in medieval society. Principal focus on the monastic and mendicant orders, tracing the changing ideals of Christian sanctity and the impact of those ideals on social movements, economic developments, and state policies.		

CAS HI 407: Topics in Medieval Religious Culture
           			Topic for Fall 2013: Christian, Muslim, and Jew: Religion, Community, and Culture in Medieval Spain. Interactions between Muslims, Christians, and Jews in medieval Europe's most religiously diverse region -  from the establishment of an Islamic al-Andalus in 711 CE to the final Christian "reconquest" of the  peninsula and expulsion of the Jews in 1492 CE. Also offered as CAS RN 470.		

CAS HI 408: War in Film and Literature
	This course explores, through works of film and literature, human experiences of combat, suffering, and  death. Topics range from medieval Japan to Africa, the Americas and Europe, WWI, WWII, and various "small  wars" from the 19th through 21st centuries.		

