CAS PY 371: Electronics for Scientists
           			A survey of practical electronics for all College of Arts and Sciences science students wishing to gain a working knowledge of electronic instrumentation, and in particular, its construction. Two four-hour laboratory-lecture sessions per week.		

CAS PY 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS PY 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS PY 405: Electromagnetic Fields and Waves I
           			Vector analysis; Gauss's law; electric field intensity; energy and potential; conductors, dielectrics, and capacitance; Poisson's and Laplace's equations; steady magnetic fields;		

CAS PY 406: Electromagnetic Fields and Waves II
           			Maxwell's equations; electromagnetic waves in vacuum and matter; reflection and refraction; diffraction and interference; coherence; special theory of relativity.		

CAS PY 408: Intermediate Mechanics
           			Dynamics of particles and rigid bodies. Newtonian mechanics. Oscillatory motion and motion under a central force. Lagrangian and Hamiltonian dynamics. Coupled oscillations, normal modes, and continuum mechanics. Longitudinal and transverse mechanical waves.		

CAS PY 410: Statistical Thermodynamics
           			The laws of themodynamics, statistical basis of thermodynamics, ensemble theory, equilibrium statistical mechanics and its application to physical systems of interest, irreversibility, transport, and the approach to equilibrium. 		

CAS PY 421: Introduction to Computational Physics
           			Undergraduate-level introduction to computer programming and methods used to formulate and solve physics problems on the computer. Also touches on more advanced topics such as parallel computing and graphical visualization.		

CAS PY 451: Quantum Physics 1
           			Uncertainty principle; Schrödinger wave equation and applications; operators; hermitian operators and  unitary transformations; harmonic oscillator; angular momentum and spin; hydrogen atom.		

CAS PY 482: Undergraduate Physics Seminar
	Intended primarily for upper-level physics students but open to others with consent of the instructor. In-depth examination at an undergraduate level of an area of current physics research. Topics cover areas of contemporary interest and vary from year to year; possible areas include general relativity, particle physics, biophysics, and superconductivity. (CAS PY 482 may be taken multiple times for credit.)		

CAS PY 491: Directed Study or Research in Physics
           			Intensive study of one aspect of physics under the supervision of a faculty member.		

CAS PY 492: Directed Study or Research in Physics
           			Intensive study of one aspect of physics under the supervision of a faculty member.		

CAS PY 501: Mathematical Physics
		Introduction to complex variables and residue calculus, asymptotic methods, and conformal mapping; integral transforms; ordinary and partial differential equations; non-linear equations; integral equations. 		

CAS PY 502: Computational Physics
		Fundamental methods of computational physics and applications; numerical algorithms; linear algebra, differential equations; computer simulation; vectorization, parallelism, and optimization. Examples and projects on scientific applications. 		

CAS PY 511: Quantum Mechanics I
		General theory of quantum mechanics, including the Schrodinger, Heisenberg, and interaction pictures. The path integral formulation. Angular momentum: orbital and spin angular momentum, addition of angular momenta, Wigner-Eckart theorem. Scattering theory: time-independent, partial waves and phase shift, identical particles, time dependent, and propagators. 		

CAS PY 512: Quantum Mechanics II
