CAS HI 150: Freshman Writing and Research Seminar: War in Literature and Film
           			Explores how young people have experienced combat, killing, suffering, and death, in their own words and through modern films. Wars covered range from medieval Europe and Japan to the Zulu Wars and all the horrors of twentieth-century total war. Satisfies WR 150 requirement.		

CAS HI 151: The Emerging United States to 1865
	Explores how the United States, at first only a series of borderland outposts, became a sprawling national  republic. Investigates factors that brought Americans together and those that tore them apart, as they  struggled passionately over racial, religious, and sectional values.		

CAS HI 152: The United States since 1865
	After the Civil War, Americans created a new urbanizing and industrializing landscape, flush with  immigrants, growing class conflict, and racial divisions. This course explores how, through times of  prosperity, depression, and war, Americans transformed the United States into one of the world's leading  nations.		

CAS HI 175: World History to 1500
	Explores historical and environmental factors influencing how cultures take shape and impact each other.  Examines early global connections and conflicts between people of different continents as well as between  humans, other species, the natural environment, and planet as a whole.		

CAS HI 176: World History after 1500
	Examines the religious encounters, economic rivalries, and military battles produced by European   imperialism in Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, and Asia since 1500. Analyzes how European   colonialism came to dominate the world and nationalist movements succeeded in gaining independence.		

CAS HI 190: History of Boston: Community and Conflict
	Students work with centuries-old objects, manuscripts, letters, and diaries in reconstructing Boston's past.  The course covers witchcraft in America, immigration, and race in depth, with out-of-class visits to  museums, churches, and neighborhoods in the city.		

CAS HI 191: What Is Europe?
	Explores key moments in history when cultural contact prompted Europeans to reconsider how they  defined themselves culturally and geographically. Lectures and discussions are combined with trips to local  museums/archives to analyze the material remains of this process of self-definition.		

CAS HI 200: The Historian's Craft
	Required workshop for majors, normally taken in the sophomore year. Gives students the opportunity to analyze original sources and engage with leading works of historical scholarship. Explores how historians reconstruct and interpret the past using creativity, deduction, and contextual analysis. 		

CAS HI 201: History of Medieval Europe
	Traces the evolution of medieval civilization from the fourth to the fourteenth centuries. Emphasizes three  main themes: the political and social development of western Europe, the evolution of Latin Christianity,  and the role of popular culture. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the  same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 203.		

CAS HI 203: Magic, Science, and Religion
	Boundaries and relationships between magic, science, and religion from late antiquity through the  European Enlightenment. Topics include transformation of pagan traditions, distinctions between learned  and popular traditions, Scientific Revolution, and changing assumptions about God and Nature. Also  offered as CAS RN 242. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title  that was previously numbered CAS HI 306.		

CAS HI 204: History of the Crusades
	The origin and development of the Crusade movement in Western Christendom: the first four Crusades, their cause and results; crusader finance, preaching, and military recruitment; changing focus of Crusade movements from the Holy Land to other areas. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 308. 		

CAS HI 205: Millenarian Expectations in Western History, Year 1-2000
	The role of millenarian expectations (belief in an imminent, radical transformation of the world) in the development of the modern West. Apocalyptic expectations and millenarian groups, secularization of millenarian hopes, and disappointed expectations in the emergence of modern industrial society. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 309. 		

CAS HI 207: Honor-Shame: Middle Ages, Modern World
	Considers the dynamics of "honor-shame" cultures generally, then examines their role in the European  Middle Ages and the contemporary world. Attempts to understand how other cultures can emphasize  significantly different values and social interactions from Western ones. This course cannot be taken for  credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 304.		

CAS HI 208: Renaissance Europe
	The main political, socioeconomic, intellectual, and artistic currents in Italy (c. 1350-1530) and  northwestern Europe (c. 1500-1560); emphasis on leading thinkers (Petrarch, Bruni, Machiavelli, Erasmus,  More, and Montaigne) as creators of the modern Western mind.  This course cannot be taken for credit in  addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 311.		

CAS HI 209: The Reformation: Religious Conflict in Early Modern Europe
	Examines religious change in sixteenth- and seventeenth-century Europe, particularly the origins and  causes of the Protestant Reformation, the parallel Catholic Reformation, and the consequent military  conflicts in Germany, France, and the Netherlands. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course with the title "Christendom Divided: Reformation and Religious Conflict in Early Modern Europe"  that was previously numbered CAS HI 312. Also offered as CAS RN 310.		

CAS HI 210: Europe between Renaissance and Revolution
	Surveys the key movements that transformed European culture, politics, and intellectual life between the  fifteenth and eighteenth centuries: the Renaissance, Protestant and Catholic Reformations, new age of  science and exploration, absolutism and constitutional monarchy, Enlightenment, and French Revolution.  This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS HI 204.		

CAS HI 213: Sacred and Secular Power in Christianity and Islam
	Explores the relationship between sacred and secular power within the Christian and Islamic traditions,  with a focus on how their foundational texts and earliest communities established models for negotiating  the porous boundary between the sacred and the secular. Also offered as CAS RN 208.		

CAS HI 214: History of Piracy
	Examines piracy in European history from ancient time to the present, focusing on its economic and social  causes, and its consequences. Addresses too the modern permutations of piracy as a form of social protest  and a technique of terrorism.		

CAS HI 215: The European Enlightenment
	How Europe became modern. The rise of science, critique of religion, and struggle for rights. The public sphere emerges: newspapers, Freemasons, coffee, salons, smut. The invention of a cosmopolitan republic of letters; Voltaire, Diderot, Kant, Adam Smith, Benjamin Franklin. Also offered as CAS PO 393. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 314. 		

CAS HI 216: The Second Sex in European History
	Until recently, most people believed women a "second sex," inferior to men in mind and body. Exploring gender politics and women's lives from the Middle Ages to the present, this course charts a long struggle for equal rights and opportunities.   		

