CAS HI 284: History of War
	Why do we make war? Nothing else so engages the human genius for creative destruction. From crossbows to nuclear fire, this course traces five centuries of war to uncover depths of depravity and cruelty and heights of sacrifice and suffering. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 307.		

CAS HI 286: The American Military Experience
	Investigates how the United States waged war during the twentieth century-- and continues to wage war  since 9/11. Why and how do Americans fight? Who serves and who sacrifices? With what consequences for  American democracy? Also offered as CAS IR 320. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 370.		

CAS HI 287: History of American Foreign Relations since 1898
	Analysis of the history of American foreign policy from the perspective of the changing world and regional  international systems; emphasis on the effect of these systems and the impact of America on the creation  and operation of international systems. Also offered as CAS PO 381. This course cannot be taken for credit  in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 366.		

CAS HI 288: American Foreign Policy Since 1945
	America's tradition and heritage in foreign policy. American foreign policy during the Cold War. Conflicting  approaches to the formulation of American foreign policy in the current international environment.  Domestic and institutional actors in policy formulation: Congress, media, Presidency, CIA, military. Also  offered as CAS IR 376. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title  that was previously numbered CAS HI 376.		

CAS HI 291: Politics of the American Environment
	When have Americans addressed declining resources and ecological deterioration? Why hasn't every  environmental problem provoked a policy response? This course examines how debates over  environmental rights and risks shaped U.S. political history from the country's beginning to the present.  This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was  previously  numbered CAS HI 360.		

CAS HI 292: Capitalism in America: Economic History of the US
	Surveys the history of corporations and private enterprise since the Civil War, disentangling the evolving  relationships between business and government and tracing the influence of money, markets, and their  managers in American communities from factories to the frontiers. This course cannot be taken for credit  in addition to the course with the title "Money, Markets &amp; Managers: Economic History of the United States"  that was previously numbered CAS HI 377.		

CAS HI 294: American Evangelicalism
	Major trends in American Evangelicalism, from the colonial awakenings and religious reform to the  contemporary Christian Right. Focus on how evangelicals have negotiated and shaped central tenets of  American culture, including understandings of gender, race, performance, nation, sexuality, and  economics. Also offered as CAS RN 368.		

CAS HI 295: Religious Controversies and the Law
	Explores a major challenge faced by modern states, namely the regulation of religion. Case studies from  Europe, North America, and Israel demonstrate the ways in which governments have weighed religious  freedom against other social and legal values, rights, and needs.		

CAS HI 298: African American History
	The history of African Americans from African origins to present time; consideration of slavery, reconstruction, and ethnic relations from the colonial era to our own time. Also offered as CAS AA 371. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS HI 371.		

CAS HI 299: History of the Civil Rights Movement
	History of the African American struggle for racial equality and democracy from the turn of the century  through the 1960s. Use is made of the most recent scholarship, memoirs, documentary films, and oral  history accounts. Also offered as CAS AA 310. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 378.		

CAS HI 300: American Popular Culture
	Examines how Americans have changed (and haven't) since the nineteenth century by exploring their curious beliefs, social and sexual practices, and changing understandings of selfhood. Topics include Victorian etiquette, modern city pleasures, racial stereotyping, dating rituals, family dynamics, and more. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 379.		

CAS HI 301: A History of Women in the United States
	Examines the ideas and experiences of women in the United States from the 1600s through the late  twentieth century. Considers the common factors that shaped women's lives as well as women's diverse  class, ethnic, and regional experiences. Also offered as CAS AM 375. This course cannot be taken for  credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 375.		

CAS HI 302: Science and American Culture
	Examines the rise of the natural and human sciences as influential forces in American society. Considers why they gained considerable authority in realms of medicine and technology but have proven far more limited in their impact on morality and religion. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition  to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 368.		

CAS HI 303: Sex, Love, Family: Relationships in Recent American History and Pop Culture
	Explores modern American romance and family dynamics, especially since the 1970s. Follows the life cycle  from birth to death, surveying common milestones and rituals such as coming of age, coming out, getting  married, or having a midlife crisis, and more.		

CAS HI 304: Science and Religion: Dialogue and Debate
	Challenges conventional wisdom that science and religion have always been at war in Europe and North  America.  Explores their interactions, mutual existence, and conflict from Copernicus' claim that the earth  revolved around the sun to contemporary debates about evolution. Also offered as CAS RN 369. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course entitled "Science and Christianity" that was previously numbered CAS HI 369.		

CAS HI 305: American Thought and Culture, 1776-1900
	Examines how intellectuals constructed an "exceptional" American identity by adjusting provincial Protestant and Enlightenment traditions to the challenges of transnational democratic, Romantic, and secular thought. Topics include Transcendentalism, pro- and anti-slavery movements, philosophical idealism, literary realism, and Darwinian theories. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 373.		

CAS HI 306: American Thought and Culture, 1900 to the Present
	Investigates how American thinkers brought about an intellectual revolution in three challenging moments: the naturalist revolt in pragmatic philosophy and modern art; progressive liberals' confrontations with radicalism and new conservatisms; and poststructuralists' uncertain leap beyond modernist science, religion, and humanities. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 374. 		

CAS HI 308: Religious Thought in America
	Surveys many of the strategies that American religious thinkers have adopted for interpreting the cosmos,   the social order and human experience, and the interaction of those strategies with broader currents of   American culture. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that    was previously numbered CAS HI 354.		

CAS HI 309: Americans in the World: The United States in Transnational Perspective
	Examines how artists, activists, migrants, tourists, and other travelers have connected United States society with people and cultures around the world. Considers how foreign criticism, popular wartime experiences, global integration, and more have shaped American culture and the modern nation-state. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course entitled "Americans in the World: United States History in Transnational Perspective" that was previously numbered CAS HI 367.		

CAS HI 312: Modernism and Modernity: History and Literature of the United States between the World Wars
           			Modernism and modernity in America from the 1920s to the 1940s: two world wars, Jazz Age, Harlem Renaissance, Great Depression. Team-taught with both professors leading discussions on literature and history of the times, Historical readings alongside Hemingway, Faulkner, Fitzgerald, Hurston, others. Also offered as CAS EN 546.		

