CAS BI 216: Intensive Genetics
           			Advanced alternative to CAS BI 206, emphasizing depth of coverage, class discussion, and reading  research papers. Principles of classical, molecular, and evolutionary genetics derived from analytical,  molecular, and whole genome cytological evidence in animals, plants, and microorgansims. Three hours  lecture, one hour discussion.		

CAS BI 225: Behavioral Biology
           			Introduction to the genetics, physiology, neurobiology, ecology, and evolution of behavior. Topics include  gene/environment interaction, hormones and behavior, neuroethology, communication, reproductive  behavior, evolution of cooperation and altruism, cognition and brain evolution. Emphasis on integrative  analysis.		

CAS BI 230: Behavioral Endocrinology
           			Hormonal control of reproductive behaviors and social affiliation, aggression, fluid homeostasis and  feeding, biological rhythms including seasonal reproduction, stress, learning and memory, psychiatric  illness, and steroid abuse. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion. Also offered as CAS NE 230.		

CAS BI 260: Marine Biology (EBE)
           			Life in the seas: its ecology, evolution, and human impacts. Includes behavioral, physiological, structural, ecological, and evolutionary perspectives. A prerequisite for the Marine Semester. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion. 		

CAS BI 271: Reading in Biology II
           			Library research on a well-defined topic in biological sciences, chosen in conjunction with a faculty  member. Individual conferences and discussion with the faculty member are required as well as a paper  presentation. Does not carry major or minor credit in biology. 		

CAS BI 272: Reading in Biology II
           			Library research on a well-defined topic in biological sciences, chosen in conjunction with a faculty  member. Individual conferences and discussion with the faculty member are required as well as a paper  presentation. Does not carry major or minor credit in biology.		

CAS BI 281: Fundamentals of Biology 1
           			Limited to seven-year medical and dental students. Fundamentals of cell biology, molecular and Mendelian  genetics, immunology, and physiology. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, three hours lab. 		

CAS BI 282: Fundamentals of Biology 2
           			Limited to seven-year medical and dental students. Fundamentals of cell biology, molecular and Mendelian  genetics, immunology, and physiology. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, three hours lab. 		

CAS BI 291: Undergraduate Research in Biology II
           			Research in biological science for students at the sophomore level. Students design and implement a research project with a faculty member.		

CAS BI 292: Undergraduate Research in Biology II
           			Research in biological science for students at the sophomore level. Students design and implement a research project with a faculty member.		

CAS BI 302: Vertebrate Zoology (EBE)
           			Methods and principles of comparative vertebrate zoology. Phylogeny, natural history, adaptation, and taxonomy. Laboratory emphasis on correlation among structural, physiological, and evolutionary features of selected vertebrates by both dissection and experimentation. Field trips. Two hours lecture, six hours lab. 		

CAS BI 303: Evolutionary Ecology (EBE)
           			Investigation of ecological processes and patterns at the individual, population, and community level. An evolutionary approach is emphasized. Three hours lecture, three hours lab. One research paper and one daylong field trip required.		

CAS BI 306: Biology of Global Change (EBE)
           			The ecological impacts of human activity on terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. Climate change, forest decline, eutrophication, acidification, loss of species diversity, and restoration of ecosystems. Three hours lecture, three hours lab. 		

CAS BI 307: Biogeography
           			Examines the spatial distribution of plants and animals from historical, ecological, and analytical perspectives. Environmental and human influences on species distribution, abundance, and diversity are considered, as are changes resulting from past and projected climate change. Also offered as CAS GE 307.		

CAS BI 309: Evolution
           			Introduction to modern concepts, controversies, and analytical approaches in evolutionary biology. Topics include adaptation, natural and sexual selection, species and speciation, phylogenetics, comparative analysis, basic population and quantitative genetics, origin of novelty, adaptive radiation, development and evolution.		

CAS BI 311: General Microbiology (CM)
