CAS EN 143: Introduction to Drama
	Introduction to dramatic literature and performance. Readings may include works from the classical period  to the present, with particular emphasis on learning how to read and understand dramatic literature as a  form and in cultural context. Topics vary by instructor. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to  the course with the same number that was previously titled "Literary Types: Drama."  Carries humanities  divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS EN 163: Reading Shakespeare
	A critical introduction to Shakespeare through intensive analyses of six or seven plays. Possible attention  to such topics as literary sources, early modern stagecraft, performance history, and contemporary film  adaptation. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.   		

CAS EN 164: Reading Shakespeare
	Representative tragedies, comedies, and histories. Primarily for students not concentrating in English. CAS EN 163 not prerequisite for EN 164. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.   		

CAS EN 175: Literature and the Art of Film
	Survey and analysis of cinema as an expressive medium from the silent period to the present. Films are screened weekly and discussed in conjunction with works of literature. Students must register for screening, discussion, and lecture. 		

CAS EN 202: Introduction to Creative Writing
	An introduction to writing in various genres: poetry, fiction, plays. Students' work discussed in class. Designed mainly for those with little or no experience in creative writing. Does not give concentration credit. Enrollment limited. 		

CAS EN 220: Seminar in Literature
	Fundamentals of literary analysis, interpretation, and research. Intensive study of selected literary texts centered on a particular topic. Attention to different critical approaches. Frequent papers. Limited class size. Required of concentrators in English. Satisfies WR 150 requirement.		

CAS EN 221: Major Authors I
	Introduction to the major works of ancient and medieval literatures that influenced later Continental, English, and American literature: the Bible, Homeric epic, Greek tragedy, Vergil's Aeneid, and Dante's The Divine Comedy. Required of concentrators in English. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course by the same title that was formerly numbered CAS HU 221. 		

CAS EN 304: Writing of Poetry
           			The writing of poems discussed in a workshop setting. For the more advanced student. Individual conferences. Limited enrollment.		

CAS EN 305: Writing of Fiction
           			The writing of short stories and perhaps longer fiction discussed in a workshop setting. For the more advanced student. Individual conferences. Limited enrollment.		

CAS EN 306: Introduction to Playwriting
	Students write and discuss their plays in a workshop setting. Individual conferences. Limited enrollment.		

CAS EN 322: British Literature I
           			Beginnings of English literature from Anglo-Saxon period to end of the seventeenth century. Topics include the development of various poetic forms, medieval romance, and British drama. Authors may include Chaucer, Kempe, Shakespeare, Marlowe, Donne, and Milton. 		

CAS EN 323: British Literature II
           			Overview of English literature between 1700 and 1900. Topics include London as urban center, modern prose fiction, Romantic and Victorian poetry, tensions between religion and science. Authors may include Pope, Swift, Wordsworth, Austen, Dickens, Tennyson, Wilde.		

CAS EN 326: Voices of Women
	Topic for Spring 2013: Representations of gender on diverse stages, in high and low genres, from antiquity  to the present. Theatrical and feminist movements and the intersections of gender, sexuality, race, and  class. Readings include dramatic texts and gender and performance theory.		

CAS EN 327: Topics in American Literature
           			May be repeated for credit as topics change each semester. Topic for Spring 2015: Ethnic American Women  Writers. How have nineteenth- and twentieth-century immigrant and ethnic women writers reinvented and  engaged American culture, literary traditions, and experience? Authors include Sui Sin Far, Maxine Hong  Kingston, Zitkala Sa, Louise Erdrich, Anzia Yezierska, Grace Paley, Sandra Cisneros, Bharati Mukherjee.		

CAS EN 341: History of the Novel in English
           			An introduction to the history of the Anglophone novel, from its origins in early modern England to its  status as the dominant literary form of modernity. Readings include Defoe, Austen, Dickens, James, Woolf,  Morrison, and Coetzee.		

CAS EN 347: Topics in Contemporary Fiction
           			May be repeated for credit as topics change each semester. Topic for Spring 2015: Post-1990 Anglophone   Literature. Stories of people who get ahead from India, Pakistan, Nigeria, Zimbabwe, China, Malaysia, and   elsewhere. Set in the era of globalization and free markets, we compare tales of ambition, disappointment,   solidarity, disaffection. Themes of gender, class, and race explored.		

CAS EN 355: Modern Drama I
	Theatre history from 1870 to 1920. Plays by Ibsen, Strindberg, Chekhov, Wilde, Shaw. The birth of modern  techniques of acting, design, and directing. Students stage short scenes; no experience required.		

CAS EN 356: Modern Drama II
	Modern drama and theatre history from roughly 1920 to the present.  Playwrights may include Pirandello, Beckett, Ionesco, Brecht, O'Neill,  Miller, Williams, Albee, Pinter, and Churchill. The development of modern  techniques of acting, stage design, and directing.		

CAS EN 363: Shakespeare I
	Six plays chosen from the following: Richard II, Henry IV, Much Ado About Nothing, As You Like It, Julius Caesar, Troilus and Cressida, Hamlet, Othello, Antony and Cleopatra, and The Winter's Tale.  Some attention to the sonnets.		

CAS EN 364: Shakespeare II
	Six or seven plays chosen from the following: Richard III, A Midsummer Night's Dream, Romeo and Juliet, The Merchant of Venice, Twelfth Night, Much Ado About Nothing, Measure for Measure, King Lear, Macbeth, Coriolanus, and The Tempest.		

