CAS HI 313: Internships in Public History
           			Students undertake supervised work in Boston-area institutions dedicated to the public presentation of  America's past. Students meet with the instructor to discuss themes in public history theory and practice  that, together with the internship experience and related readings, inform a final research project and class  presentation. Also offered as CAS AM 313.		

CAS HI 321: The American Revolution, 1750-1800
	Examines America's dramatic war for independence, situating the colonies' struggles within a series of broader challenges in the Atlantic world. Also shows how Americans struggled, often violently, to create a stable republic in the aftermath of these truly revolutionary upheavals. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 356.		

CAS HI 328: The Civil War Era
	Social, economic, and political consequences of slavery; Southern secession and the Civil War; political reconstruction; the New South; and the betrayal of black rights. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 361.   		

CAS HI 332: History of International Relations, 1900-45
	The causes and consequences of the First World War; the search for postwar reconstruction and stability   during the twenties; economic collapse, revolutionary nationalism, and fascism during the 1930s; the   Second World War and the advent of the bipolar world. Also offered as CAS IR 349. This course cannot be   taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 349 and  CAS HI 289.		

CAS HI 334: History of International Relations since 1945
	The causes and consequences of the Soviet-American Cold War from its origins in Europe to its extension  to Asia, Africa, and Latin America. The rise of the multipolar international system, the emergence of the  nonaligned blocs, and inter- and intra-alliance conflicts. Also offered as CAS IR 350. This course cannot be  taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 350 or  CAS HI 290.		

CAS HI 337: America in Depression and War, 1890 to 1945
	Examines how the modern United States was forged in the economic depressions of the 1890s and 1930s, and shaped by imperial and global ambitions beginning with the Spanish-American War and culminating with World War I and World War II. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course entitled "The United States, 1900-1945" that was previously numbered CAS HI 363.		

CAS HI 338: Cold War America, 1945-68
	Investigates how the ideological and strategic Cold War between the United States and the Soviet Union shaped American society. Emphasis on the consensus in domestic opinion, the civil rights movement, political and cultural dissent, and the road to Vietnam. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course entitled "The United States, 1945-68" that was previously numbered CAS HI 364.		

CAS HI 339: A History of the Present: The United States since 1968
	Surveys American society since the upheavals of the 1960s. Topics include war, politics, religion, and popular culture as well as changing notions about race, gender, and selfhood. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course entitled "The United States since 1968" that was previously numbered CAS HI 365.		

CAS HI 341: Political and Cultural Revolution
	Comparative historical analysis of modern and contemporary revolutionary upheavals and cultural change    in Europe, the Americas, East Asia, Africa, Middle East, and the former Soviet republics. Examines the   challenges posed by modernization, crisis of legitimacy, nationalism, imperial decline, and globalization.  This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS HI 215.		

CAS HI 342: Imperialism and Independence
	Examines nineteenth- and twentieth-century imperialist and independence movements, focusing on the colonial projects in Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, and Asia. Analyzes imperialist ideologies and the roles nationalism, liberalism, communism, and socialism played in independence movements. 		

CAS HI 343: Taste, Culture, and Power: The Global History of Food
	An exploration of the global history of food from prehistory to the present, considering the birth of  agriculture, food in nations and empires, hunger and nutrition, and the future of eating, including  examples from Asia, Africa, Europe, and the Americas.		

CAS HI 346: History of International Human Rights
	Meets with CAS IR 348. History of international human rights since the eighteenth century. Examines  political, social, economic rights, the UN Charter, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and related  international conventions, enforcement, regionalism, globalization, and NGOs. Analyzes tensions between  national sovereignty and human rights.		

CAS HI 348: Colonialism in Africa: Impact and Aftermath
	Uses case studies of particular African societies or nations to examine patterns of European conquest and African resistance; forms of colonial administration and socioeconomic consequences of colonial rule; decolonization and contemporary African liberation movements; economic and political developments since independence; and contemporary social and cultural change. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 292.		

CAS HI 349: History of Religion in Precolonial Africa
	The study of the development of religious traditions in Africa during the period prior to European colonialism. An emphasis on both indigenous religions and the growth and spread of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam in the continent as a whole. Also offered as CAS AA 382 and CAS RN 382. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 382.		

CAS HI 350: Atlantic History
	Examines the various interactions that shaped the Atlantic World, connecting Europe, Africa, and the Americas between 1400 and 1800. Begins by defining the political interaction, then emphasizes cultural exchange, religious conversion, and the revolutionary era. Also offered as CAS AA 385. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 385. 		

CAS HI 351: Environmental History of Africa
	Focus on the African environment and ecological systems over the past 150 years. Topics include climatic  change, hydrography, agriculture, deforestation, soil erosion, disease, conservation, famine, and the role  of colonialism and government policy in environmental change. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 394.		

CAS HI 352: Power, Leadership, and Governance in Africa and the Caribbean
	Haitian Revolution; British Caribbean, leadership, governance, and power in Africa during the period of legitimate trade; visionaries, dictators, and nationalist politics in the Caribbean; chiefs, western elites, and nationalism in colonial Africa; road to governance in post-colonial Caribbean and Africa. Also offered as CAS AA 395 and IR 394. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 395.		

CAS HI 354: History and Religion: North African Issues
           			Explores how the colonial experience shaped North African culture and society, and how the North African  postcolonial state negotiated the legacy of colonialism and responded to the dynamics underpinning global  politics. Also offered as CAS RN 346 E. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course  with the same title that was previously numbered CAS HI 384 E.		

CAS HI 361: Black Radical Thought
	Black radical thought in America, Europe, and Africa since the eighteenth century through writings of  abolitionists, leaders of revolutions and liberation movements, Black nationalists, and Black socialists.  Emphasizes the global nature of the "Black World" and its role in world history. Also offered as CAS AA  388. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was  previously numbered CAS HI 388.		

CAS HI 363: Early Chinese History
	From the Bronze Age to the seventeenth century, China changed dramatically yet maintained political and cultural cohesion, unlike any other civilization. This courses explores both diversity and unity in early Chinese society as well as their historical legacies. This course cannot be  taken for credit in addition to the course entitled "Introduction to Early Chinese History" that was previously numbered CAS HI 389.		

