CAS LD 216: Zulu 4
           			This four-skills African language course in fourth-semester isiZulu develops communicative competence  and confidence in the use of isiZulu in reading, writing, speaking and listening in culturally acceptable  ways. Students learn to communicate at an intermediate high level of proficiency.		

CAS LD 219: Igbo 3
           			This third-semester four-skill Igbo course develops competence and confidence in the use of Igbo in  reading, writing, speaking, and listening in culturally acceptable ways. Students learn to communicate at an  intermediate mid-level proficiency.		

CAS LD 220: Igbo 4
           			This fourth semester four-skills Igbo course develops communicative competence and confidence in the  use of Igbo in reading, writing, speaking, and listening in culturally acceptable ways. Students learn to  communicate at an intermediate high-level of proficiency.		

CAS LD 311: Amharic 5
           			Designed to help students develop proficiency in the language from the intermediate to advanced level.   Study and discussion of various issues in Amharic society, culture and history, and traditional and   contemporary literature.		

CAS LD 312: Amharic 6
           			Designed to help students continue to develop proficiency in the language at the advanced level. Study and  discussion of various issues in Amharic society, culture and history, and traditional and contemporary   literature. 		

CAS LD 315: Zulu 5
           			This fifth-semester course is designed to take students' proficiency in isiZulu from the intermediate to the advanced level; it includes study and discussion of various issues in Zulu society, culture and history, and traditional and  contemporary literature.		

CAS LD 316: Zulu 6
           			This sixth-semester course builds on Zulu 5, helping students to develop their proficiency in the language at the advanced level. Continuing study of various language and cultural issues pertaining to Zulu society.		

CAS LD 491: Directed Study in African Languages and Linguistics
           			Study of the linguistic structure of an African language, or the typology of African language families, or linguistic problems related to African languages. 		

CAS LD 492: Directed Study in African Languages and Linguistics
           			Study of the linguistic structure of an African language, or the typology of African language families, or linguistic problems related to African languages. 		

CAS LE 111: Swahili 1
	Introduction to spoken Kiswahili. Emphasis on communicative skills. Exposure to full system of noun  classes and introduction to tense-aspect system. Cultural and historical readings, films, and other visual  aids included. Lab required. Four hours weekly. 		

CAS LE 112: Swahili 2
           			This four-skill African langauge course in second-semester Kiswahili leads toward proficiency in oral  expression, listening comprehension, reading, cultural understanding, and writing.		

CAS LE 211: Swahili 3
           			Intermediate study of Kiswahili. Continued emphasis on oral communication skills and the development of  reading and writing skills. Exposure to all compound tenses. Readings from traditional Kiswahili literature,  oral and written. Lab required. 		

CAS LE 212: Swahili 4
           			This four-skill African language course in fourth-semester Kiswahili emphasizes oral communication skills  and the development of reading and writing skills. It exposes students to all compound tenses of the  language, and develops students' reading skills in traditional Kiswahili literature.		

CAS LE 311: Swahili 5
           			Discussions and compositions relating to East African themes and based in readings from traditional  literature, political treatises from Kenya and Tanzania, and a modern novel. Advanced grammatical  analysis.  		

CAS LE 312: Swahili 6
           			This four-skill African language course in sixth-semester Kiswahili focuses on discussions and  compositions dealing with East African themes and based on readings from traditional literature, political  treatises from Kenya and Tanzania, and Kiswahili modern novels. Students also study advanced grammar.		

CAS LE 411: Swahili 7
           			This course is designed to take students to advanced-high level proficiency in Kiswahili. It emphasizes high-level reading comprehension and leads to the development of communication skills for extended formal and informal discourse.		

CAS LE 412: Swahili 8
