CAS HI 488: Interwar Japan and the Pacific War
	An examination of the cultural, social, and political impact of World War I on Japanese society; the nature of Taisho liberalism; 1930s militaristic nationalism, with emphasis on the role of the United States leading into and beyond World War II.		

CAS HI 491: Directed Study
           					

CAS HI 492: Directed Study
           					

CAS HI 496: Ideology and Conflict in World History
	Connects the ideas of European Enlightenment and Romanticism with imperialism, nationalism, fascism, liberalism, communism, and socialism and analyzes the spread of these ideas to Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, and Asia. 		

CAS HI 502: Drafts of History: Journalism and Historical Revisionism
	Considers episodes from U.S. history, comparing the "draft" of journalists to subsequent historical  accounts. Analyzes how new evidence alters understanding of events, but also how different eras ask  questions about the past, interrogate different sources, and appeal to different audiences.		

CAS HI 503: Psychohistory
           			Addresses the "Whys?" of history and focuses on the application of Freudian analysis and other psychological models to interpret past individual and group behavior. Emphasizes two key subfields: psychobiography and group psychohistory. 		

CAS HI 514: Enlightenment and Its Critics
           			Explores how eighteenth-century criticisms of the Enlightenment have been taken up by twentieth-century  thinkers such as Heidegger, Horkheimer, Adorno, Gadamer, and Foucault; discusses recent defenses of  Enlightenment ideals of reason, critique and autonomy by Habermas and others. Also offered as CAS PO  592 and CAS PH 412.		

CAS HI 524: The Cold War in Latin America
	Meets with CAS IR 524. Analyzes the Cold War as experienced in Latin America. Examines government  policies, social movements,  economic conditions, and power struggles across Latin America. Compares  episodes of direct and indirect  intervention by the United States as well as Latin American responses.		

CAS HI 525: Development in Historical Perspective
	A critical investigation of modern "development" practices and projects in Asia, Africa, and the Americas.   Explores the rise of development paradigms in the nineteenth century and key twentieth-century  transformations; interrogates challenges to, critiques of, and reaffirmations of global development  schemes.		

CAS HI 533: Empire and Power: British Foreign Policy, 1782-Present
	Examines the evolution of British foreign policy over time as well as the nature of Great Power rivalry. Key themes include formulation of national diplomatic strategies, policy coordination, diplomatic vs. military  considerations, alliance politics, and policy over-stretch. Also offered as CAS IR 514. 		

CAS HI 537: World War II: Causes, Course, Consequences
	Hitler, Mussolini, Tojo, Churchill, Roosevelt, Stalin, and 75 million ordinary and extraordinary dead. From 1939-1945, the whole world waged total war in cruel ways unknown to any history before or since. Explore the causes, course, and consequences of these events. 		

CAS HI 549: Nationalism in the Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries
           			Explores the origins of modern nationalism as a major force, molding identity and motivating politics. Examines the relationship between nationalism, revolution, and war, as well as the challenges presented by ethnic revivalism, ethnonational conflicts, and globalization. 		

CAS HI 560: The American Transcendentalists
           			Led by Emerson, Thoreau, Bronson Alcott, Margaret Fuller, and others, the Transcendentalists constituted  the first "counter-cultural" movement in American history. Seminar focuses on how and why they did so  within the philosophical, religious, literary, antislavery, communitarian, and ecological currents they  inhabited.		

CAS HI 568: The Modern Metropolis: Approaches to Urban History
           			Cities such as New York, Paris, London, and Shanghai captured the worst problems and most exciting possibilities of the late-nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. This course investigates how urban spaces facilitated commerce, social life, and the forging of modern identitities. 		

CAS HI 580: The History of Racial Thought
	Study of racial thinking and feeling in Europe and the United States since the fifteenth  century. Racial thinking in the context of Western encounters with non-European people  and Jews; its relation to social, economic, cultural, and political trends. Also offered as CAS AA 580.		

CAS HI 584: Labor, Sexuality, and Resistance in the Afro-Atlantic World
           			The role of slavery in shaping the society and culture of the Afro-Atlantic world, highlighting the role of  labor, the sexual economy of slave regimes, and the various strategies of resistance deployed by enslaved people. Also offered as CAS AA 514.		

CAS HI 588: Women, Power, and Culture in Africa
           			Understanding the role of women in African history. Topics include the Atlantic slave trade, power, religion, the economy, resistance movements, health, the state, and kinship. Emphasis on the period before independence. Also offered as CAS AA 588. 		

CAS HI 589: Nature's Past: Histories of Environment and Society
           			Explores approaches in environmental history and asks how non-human actors, together with human  agents, determined historical outcomes and shaped ecological, technological, demographic, political, and  cultural change. Cases are selected from North America, Latin America, Europe, Asia, and Africa.		

CAS HI 590: The World and the West
