CAS LH 212: Intermediate Modern Hebrew 2
           			Expands vocabulary, grammar, language structures and communicative skills to enable students to achieve  solid proficiency. Develops students' ability to respond orally and in writing to literary texts and audio- visual material such as Israeli films, television clips, and news.		

CAS LH 250: Masterpieces of Modern Hebrew Literature (in English translation)
	Narrative prose and poetry of major writers from the revival of Hebrew culture in nineteenth-century Eastern Europe to present-day Israel, including works of Bialik, Agnon, Amichai, and Yehoshua. Special focus on the struggle for modern identity in the domains of family, nation, and religion. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS LH 283: Israeli Culture through Film (in English translation)
	Examines changes in Israeli society over the last fifty years through the medium of film. Traces cultural responses to the Arab/Israeli conflict, the Holocaust, and Sephardi-Ashkenazi relations. 		

CAS LH 284: The Culture and Civilization of Modern Israel (in English translation)
	An interdisciplinary introduction to Israeli history, politics, culture, and identity. Meets with CAS HI 392. 		

CAS LH 311: Advanced Modern Hebrew: Voices in Israeli Society
           			Advanced language practice and introduction to diverse groups in Israeli society - Orthodox and secular, immigrants and old-timers, Mizrachi and Ashkenazi Jews. Develops Hebrew proficiency in all language  modalities while acquainting students with contemporary Israeli culture through texts, songs, films.		

CAS LH 312: Sixth-Semester Hebrew
           			Advanced mastery of the full range of Hebrew language usages and styles through short stories, drama,  poetry, news media, films, and other activities. Theme for Spring 2015: The development of Israeli and  Middle Eastern cuisine.		

CAS LH 330: Israeli Popular Music
           			Advanced-intermediate Hebrew language and culture course for those who have completed at least four   semesters' college Hebrew or equivalent. Introduction to Israeli cultural history through music. Students  expand vocabulary and further develop writing, reading, listening, and conversational skills in Hebrew.		

CAS LH 340: Israeli Culture though Media
           			An advanced Hebrew language course, which uses as its "textbook" Israeli newspapers, television, and  online news media. Students follow current events in Israel (politics, business, sports, etc.); compare  coverage in diverse outlets; speak and write knowledgeably about Israeli society.		

CAS LH 491: Directed Study: Hebrew
           			Application form available in department.		

CAS LI 111: First-Semester Italian
	For beginners only, or placement examination results. Grammar, conversation practice, written exercises, and compositions. Conducted in Italian. Lab required. Four hours weekly. (If CAS LI 131 or a more advanced college-level course has been completed, this course cannot be taken for credit.)  		

CAS LI 112: Second-Semester Italian
           			Continues the CAS LI 111 basic text: grammar, conversation, compositions. Conducted in Italian. Lab required. Four hours weekly.		

CAS LI 131: Beginning Italian I
           			Specially designed for College of Fine Arts students. Grammar; special attention to phonetics; reading and writing.		

CAS LI 132: Beginning Italian II
           			Specially designed for students in the College of Fine Arts. Continuation of CAS LI 131. Grammar; special attention to phonetics; reading and writing.  		

CAS LI 211: Third-Semester Italian
           			Intended for students with a satisfactory background in elementary Italian, who require some review of  basic structures, verbs, and related essentials. Review, emphasis on composition skills, and conversation.  Reading and discussion of short stories, poetry, and plays. Conducted in Italian.		

CAS LI 212: Fourth-Semester Italian
           			For students who wish to build active use of Italian in speaking, writing, and reading. Continuation of CAS LI 211: review, development of reading skills through analysis of contemporary texts, compositions, conversation. Lab required. Satisfactory completion of CAS LI 212 fulfills the CAS language requirement.  		

CAS LI 283: Twentieth-Century Culture and the Italian Film (in English translation)
	A portrait of modern Italian life as seen through cinema and screenplays. Films by Fellini, Bertolucci, Bellocchio (based on works by Pirandello, Calvino, Moravia, Pasolini) illustrate aspects of Italian cultural development in the twentieth century. 		

CAS LI 303: Self-Expression in Italian
           			Building and expansion of vocabulary through development of fluent discussion in Italian on topics of   current interest. Emphasis on idiomatic expressions. Individual oral reports related to Italian culture,   history, cinema, and literature. Reading of a novel. Not open to native speakers of Italian. 		

CAS LI 304: Advanced Self-Expression
