CAS CL 224: Greek Drama in Translation
	The history and development of ancient Greek theater; study of important plays in the genres of tragedy,  comedy, and satyr drama by Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides, Aristophanes, and Menander. Cannot be   taken for credit in addition to CAS CL 324. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS CL 226: Ancient Epic in Translation
	Studies, in translation, the tradition of Greek and Roman epic: heroic, cosmogonic, didactic. Possible  authors include Hesiod, Homer, Apollonius, Aratus, Lucretius, Vergil, Ovid, Lucan, Statius. Focus on the  social context, values, structure and narrative of each poem. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS  CL 326.		

CAS CL 229: Roman Comedy
	Selected plays. Explores the Roman adaptation of Greek comic forms, the development of a Roman point  of view, practical aspects of staging plays, and the influence of early Roman comedy on later literature.  Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS CL 329.		

CAS CL 261: Intermediate Greek 1: Prose
           			Reading of selections from Greek prose. Authors read may include Plato and Lysias, as well as selections from the New Testament.		

CAS CL 262: Intermediate Greek 2: Poetry
           			Reading of selections from the Iliad or Odyssey.		

CAS CL 305: Topics in Myth
           			This course may be repeated for credit as topics change. Topic for Fall 2014: Origin Stories of the Universe  and Humankind. Readings draw on a range of creation stories and myths from the Near East, Hebrew, and  Greek and Roman traditions to Darwin, Freud, Creationism, and the Big Bang.  		

CAS CL 306: Entheogens, Myth, and Human Consciousness
           			An examination of the role of entheogens (psychoactive substances, especially fungi, used for religious  purposes) in humankind's attempts to understand realms beyond the physical, as reflected in Greco- Roman religions and in various mythologies and folklores, and as represented in art and literature from  antiquity through the Renaissance.		

CAS CL 319: History of the Greek Language
           			Presents a comprehensive historical approach to the Greek language, tracing and elucidating major changes with attention to structure, grammar, syntax, vocabulary, and elements of style. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS CL 519.		

CAS CL 325: Greek Tragedy and Film
	Explores Greek tragic myth's afterlife, both directly and obliquely, in cinema and in the modern literature  spawning cinema: how certain Greek tragic myths have come to life as film and how "non-mythic" stories  have acquired a mythic power in literary and cinematic form. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS CL 346: Early Christian Latin Literature
           			Introduction to the reading and interpretation of important works of early Christian literature (3rd -- 6th centuries) in Latin, for students of classics (esp. Latin), theology, and related historical  disciplines. The focus is on language, literary form, relation to 'classical' literature, and historical contexts. Topics vary. Also offered as CAS CL 546.   		

CAS CL 351: Latin Seminar
           			Intensive study of selected major authors. Topics change each semester. May be repeated for credit. Topic    for Fall 2014: Horace's Poetry and His World. Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

CAS CL 391: Greek Seminar
           			Intensive study of selected major authors. May be repeated for credit. Topic for Fall 2014: Xenophon's  "Anabasis of Cyrus." Written around 380 BCE, the Anabasis is a model of Attic Greek prose and a source on  Xenophon's life and on Greek history, especially Graeco-Persian relations, around the turn of the fifth  century.		

CAS CL 396: Early Christian Greek Literature
           			Introduction to the reading and interpretation of important works of early Christian literature (1st --6th centuries) in Greek, for students of classics (esp. Greek), theology, and related historical  disciplines. The focus is on language, literary form, relation to 'classical' literature, and historical contexts.  Topics vary.  Also offered as CAS CL 596. 		

CAS CL 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS CL 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS CL 406: Advanced Topics in Classical Civilization
           			Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

CAS CL 451: Advanced Latin Seminar
           			Advanced level Latin seminar emphasizing close reading and literary analysis. Changing topics explore a variety of texts linked by chronology, genre, or theme. May be repeated for credit. Topic for Spring 2015:  Livy, Machiavelli, and the Creation of the Republic. Analysis of the first decade of the history and of  Machiavelli's reading of the early books in the "Discourses on Livy."		

CAS CL 461: Advanced Greek Seminar
