CAS EN 482: Critical Studies in Modern Literature
	Topic for Spring 2014: Literature and Cultural Difference. Overview of some of the main themes explored  in colonial and postcolonial literature, along with relevant critical and historical materials. We are likely to  read works by Conrad, Achebe, Naipaul, Rushdie, Kincaid, Coetzee.		

CAS EN 485: Representing Gender in American Literature and Film
	Explores representations of gender in classic American literature and film. Treating such subjects as "rites  of passage in cultures of consumption" and "struggles for vocation among writers and filmmakers," this course considers gender as accessible only through particular histories.		

CAS EN 491: Independent Study
           			Application forms available in CAS Room 105.		

CAS EN 492: Independent Study
           			Application forms available in CAS Room 105.		

CAS EN 493: Critical Studies in Literature and The Arts
	Topic for Fall 2013: Music and Poetry. An historical survey of the relations between the two arts from the  Greeks to the present. Discussions of poetry in many languages; emphasis on English. Chant, song,  madrigal, opera, and other forms. Ability to read music is required. Also offered as CAS XL 470 A1 and CFA  MU 594.		

CAS EN 495: Critical Studies in Literary Topics
	Topic for Spring 2015: Literature and Philosophy. Conversations and confrontations between literary and  philosophical texts. Philosophy and the arts, ideas in literature, poetry and thought, and reading  philosophically. Explorations include Plato, Shakespeare, Kant, Blake, Austen, Dickinson, Nietzsche,  Wittgenstein, Woolf, Beckett, Stevens, Hitchcock, and Derrida among others.		

CAS EN 502: Crafting a Nonfiction Voice Workshop
           			A writing workshop that explores the notion of voice on the written page. Through reading, analysis,  writing exercises, and independent projects, students become familiar with techniques for recreating the  voices of others and for shaping a distinctive nonfiction voice (or voices) of their own.		

CAS EN 503: Fiction Workshop
           			A workshop in the writing of fiction. Manuscripts read and discussed in class. Individual conferences. Enrollment limited chiefly to graduate students.		

CAS EN 504: Fiction Workshop
		A workshop in the writing of fiction. Manuscripts read and discussed in class. Individual conferences. Enrollment limited chiefly to graduate students.		

CAS EN 505: Poetry Workshop
           			A workshop in the writing of poetry. Manuscripts read and discussed in class. Individual conferences. Enrollment limited chiefly to graduate students.		

CAS EN 506: Poetry Workshop
		A workshop in the writing of poetry. Manuscripts read and discussed in class. Individual conferences. Enrollment limited chiefly to graduate students.		

CAS EN 507: Seminar: Creative Writing, Fiction
           			A workshop in the writing of fiction. Manuscripts read and discussed in class. Individual conferences. Enrollment limited chiefly to graduate students.		

CAS EN 508: Seminar: Creative Writing, Poetry
           			Individual conferences. Enrollment limited chiefly to graduate students. 		

CAS EN 509: Playwriting 1: Analysis to Inspiration
           			A seminar in the fundamentals of dramatic form, structure, characterization, and theme. Students read and  discuss playwrights such as Brecht, Chekhov, and Shepard and, through written exercises, develop their  individual plays.		

CAS EN 510: Playwriting 2: Writing Short Plays
           			A seminar in the writing of short, original plays, addressing structure, language, and theme. Students read   and discuss the masters  of modern drama, and writing exercises are assigned to stir the imagination and   develop craft. 		

CAS EN 512: Readings for Writers: Contemporary Literary Nonfiction
	Intensive reading seminar for students interested in literary nonfiction, a wide-ranging, sometimes  controversial genre in which writers use techniques associated with fiction and poetry to make meaning of  facts. Explores the wealth and breadth of contemporary literary nonfiction -- memoir, personal essay,  literary journalism, travel, science, and medical writing -- with an eye toward helping students think about  their own nonfiction writing practices.		

CAS EN 518: Linguistic Problems in the Teaching of English as a Foreign Language
           			Application of linguistic concepts to the teaching of English as a foreign language. Includes description of contemporary English grammatical structures that pose problems for learners and teachers.		

