CAS EN 370: Introduction to African American Women Writers
	Examines the African American female literary tradition through selected texts by African American  women, written from slavery to the present. Critical scholarship that interrogates race, gender, and class  and examines literary history provides the larger context for discussion of these works. Also offered as CAS EN 370.. Also offered as CAS  AA 304.		

CAS EN 373: Detective Fiction
	A study of the major writers in the history of literary crime and detection, mainly British and American, with attention to the genre's cultural contexts and development from the eighteenth century to the  present.		

CAS EN 375: Topics in Literature and Film
           			Major themes and techniques explored by both writers and filmmakers. May be repeated for credit as      topics change. Topic for Fall 2013: On The Road in American Literature and Film. Explores the various   motivations for and consequences of taking to the road. Works may include Ford's Grapes of Wrath,   Invisible Man, Housekeeping, The Wild One, The Fugitive Kind, Catcher in the Rye, Thelma and Louise,  Boys  Don't Cry. Topic for Spring 2014: The Mother Figure in Literature and Film. A study of literature  and film with prominent maternal figures, from monster moms to model mothers. Weekly screenings.		

CAS EN 377: Literature of the Harlem Renaissance
	This study of the Harlem Renaissance (1919-1935) focuses on literature with overviews of the stage, the  music, and the visual arts. Authors include Du Bois, Locke, Garvey, Schuyler, Hurston, McKay, Larsen,  Fisher, Hughes, Cullen. Also offered as CAS AA 507.		

CAS EN 379: American Poetry
	A survey of American poetry, from the Revolutionary era up through the post-WWII period, introducing the  fundamentals of poetic form and lyric practice, as well as the historical and cultural contexts surrounding  the development of Romanticism, Modernism, and beyond.		

CAS EN 380: Twentieth-Century African American Novel
	Topic for Spring 2013: Transformations of Genre in the Twentieth-Century African American Novel. Major  works drawn from the Harlem Renaissance, Realism, Modernism, the Black Arts Movement, and the  contemporary period. Authors may include Jean Toomer, Nella Larsen, Wallace Thurman, Richard Wright,  Anne Petry, Ralph Ellison, Octavia Butler, John Wideman, Gloria Naylor, and Toni Morrison. Also offered as  AA 502.		

CAS EN 389: Fictional Forms
	Topic for Fall 2014: The Gothic: Monsters, Myths, History. Survey of Gothic as a narrative form (by contrast  with the realistic novel) with attention to history (as a Gothic narrative) and modern myths (Frankenstein's  monster, vampire, zombie, cyborg). Nineteenth &amp; twentieth-century fiction primarily, with an eye on today  throughout.		

CAS EN 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS EN 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS EN 404: Literary Criticism I
	A historical survey of western literary-critical standards from the earliest surviving formulations in classical  Athens to the dawn of the twentieth century, with particular attention to the shifting cultural contexts that  shape this development.		

CAS EN 405: Advanced Writing of Fiction
           			The writing of short stories and perhaps longer fiction. Manuscripts read and discussed in class. Individual conferences.		

CAS EN 406: Literary Criticism II
	Survey of literary critical perspectives and trends in humanistic theory relevant to literary interpretation from the middle of the twentieth century onward, including formalism, structuralism, post-structuralism, gender studies, new historicism, and post-colonial studies. Frequent writing assignments of varying length. 		

CAS EN 463: Hamlet/Macbeth: Appropriation and Performance
	Analysis of these plays through historical context, performance histories, and contemporary dramatic and  prose appropriations. Theoretical considerations of adaptation and appropriation, including such topics as  intertextuality, performance as interpretation, cultural politics, canon formation, and the global  marketplace of culture.		

CAS EN 468: Critical Studies in British Literature
	Topic for Fall 2014: Humanism &amp; Novel. Instead of following the history of the novel from the  eighteenth  century forward, this course looks backward, tracing the modern novel (Defoe, Haywood,  Fielding,  Richardson, Sterne, and Austen) back to Renaissance and early modern Humanism and the Deist   movement.		

CAS EN 471: Critical Studies in American Literary Movements
	Topic for Fall 2012: Modernity in the Atlantic World. An "Atlantic Studies" introduction focusing on the  historical conditions that unite Britain and America in a single, though internally various, culture. Readings  include Gilroy, Bailyn, Ellison, Roach, Defoe, Paine, Equiano, Douglass, Dickens, and James.		

CAS EN 472: Critical Studies in American Literary Movements
	Topic for Spring 2015: Transnational Modernism. Explores how internationalization shaped the emergence  of modernism in fiction, poetry, and visual art in the U.S. and Caribbean. Close analysis of texts informed  by theories of cosmopolitanism, translation, vernacular and print culture, primitivism, creolization, world  history, and transpacific exchange.		

CAS EN 474: Critical Studies in Literary Genres
	Topic for Spring 2014: Genre Theory. Genre as a category of literary and discursive analysis; selected  theories of two exemplary literary genres, poetry and the novel; major 20th- and 21st-century theories of  genre from "neoclassical" classificatory approaches through rhetorical genre studies and activity theory.		

CAS EN 475: Critical Studies in Literature and Gender
	Topic for Fall 2013: Early Modern Women Authors. A survey of European women writers from the 1400s to  the early 1600s, and of the modern critical thinking that has redefined their literary-historical importance.  Christine de Pizan, Theresa of Avila, Marguerite de Navarre, Gaspara Stampa, Elizabeth I, and others. Also  offered as CAS XL 470 B1.		

CAS EN 476: Critical Studies in Literature and Gender
	Topic for Spring 2015: Sex, Gender, and the Body in Medieval Literature. Focusing on the medieval era, this  course explores the history of sexuality and gendered identities, as well as sexuality's radical potential to  disrupt and transform bodies and selves over time. Medieval literature, alongside critical readings in  gender and sexuality studies.		

CAS EN 480: Critical Studies in American Writers
	Topic for Fall 2014: Pragmatism and Literature. Major American authors (including Emerson, Dickinson,   Henry James, Crane, Du Bois, and Frost) read in relation to classical pragmatist philosophers such as   William James, Peirce, Dewey, and Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.		

