CAS AN 596: Anthropology and History
	Examines the use of ethnographic materials and models of alternative social or economic organization to interpret historical materials as well as the use of history to provide dynamic models of change in anthropological analysis.		

CAS AN 597: Seminar: Special Topics in Biological Anthropology
	Special issues and debates in current biological anthropology. Topic for Fall 2014: Human Grown  and Development. An analysis of human growth and development from an evolutionary and cross-cultural  perspective. Other topics include brain evolution, fetal programming, sexual dimorphism, senescence,  immunity, and obesity.		

CAS AN 598: Seminar: Special Issues in Biological Anthropology
           			Special issues and debates in current biological anthropology. 		

CAS AR 100: Great Discoveries in Archaeology
	Illustrated lectures focus on the important discoveries of the discipline of archaeology. Course covers the whole of human prehistory and history around the world. Archaeological methods are described, along with the great ancient sites: Olduvai, Lascaux, Stonehenge, Egyptian pyramids, Machu Picchu, etc. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS AR 101: Introduction to Archaeology
	Theory, methods, and aims of prehistoric and historical archaeology in the Old and New Worlds. Excavation and recovery of archaeological data; dating techniques; interpretation of finds; relation of archaeology to history and other disciplines. Examination of several Old and New World cultures. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS AR 200: Heritage Matters: Introduction to Heritage Management
	Protection and management of archaeological heritage, including sites, artifacts, and monuments. Survey  of heritage values and stakeholders. Issues covered include cultural policy and legislation, U.S.  preservation system, international efforts, indigenous perspectives, looting, repatriation, underwater  heritage, and heritage at war. Carries social sciences divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS AR 201: Americas Before Columbus
	An introduction to the archaeology and civilizations of pre-Columbian Americas. Topics progress  chronologically as well as comparatively, with cases drawn from Native American cultures of North America, Mesoamerica, and South America.		

CAS AR 205: Origins of Civilization
	The comparison of origins and institutions of civilizations in the Old and New Worlds, including the first state-organized societies of Mesopotamia, Egypt, the Indus Valley, China, Mesoamerica, and Peru. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS AR 206: Ancient Technology
	Traces the related evolution of technology and culture over the first million years of human existence. Case studies focus on the interaction between early technology and social structure, values, and institutions. Lectures and hands-on experience with ceramics, stone, and metallurgy. 		

CAS AR 208: Lost Languages and Decipherments
	An overview of the archaeology of writing focusing on modern decipherments of ancient texts. Related topics include characteristics of the world's major language families, the nature of linguistic change, and the origin and history of the alphabet. 		

CAS AR 209: The Near Eastern Bronze Age
	Examines the wealth and power of the ancient Near East and Egypt during the middle and late Bronze Age. Topics include the establishment of power, long distance exchange and interaction, ethnicity, architecture, and environmental and ecological factors affecting the civilizations.		

CAS AR 210: Minoan and Mycenaean Civilizations
	Traces the rise and fall of the Minoan and Mycenaean civilizations from their Stone Age roots to the end of the Bronze Age. Subjects include art, architecture, economic, social, political, and religious characteristics, and theoretical explanations of cultural change. 		

CAS AR 215: The Contested Past
	Examination of the diverse and often conflicting values associated with archaeological objects, ancient monuments, and cultural sites. Case studies (including the Elgin Marbles) highlight contemporary controversies over ownership, appropriation, use, and abuse of the material remains of the past.		

CAS AR 222: Art and Architecture of Ancient America
	Introduction to the cities, monuments, and major art styles of the Aztec, the Maya, the Inca, and their  predecessors in ancient Mesoamerica and the Andes from the first millennium BCE to the sixteenth  century. 		

CAS AR 230: Introduction to Greek &amp; Roman Archaeology
	How material remains help us understand aspects of Ancient Greek and Roman cultures in their historical  development: religious and civic spaces; the culture of affluence; imperial identity; and the transformations  that mark the end of classical antiquity. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS AR 232: Archaeology of Ancient Egypt
	The technology, economy, social life, political organization, religions, art, and architecture of Egypt from   Predynastic times through the Hellenistic period, based on archaeological and historical sources. Emphasis   on the period of the pharaohs (ca. 3000-323 BCE). Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS. Also offered   as CAS AH 232. 		

CAS AR 240: Archaeology of Ancient China
	Examines the archaeology of ancient China from the Neolithic through the Bronze Age (7000 to 221 BCE)  with particular attention to the interactions between technology and the acquisition of political, religious,  and social power. 		

CAS AR 251: Ancient Maya Civilization
	A survey of current knowledge and scholarship about the Maya civilization, which flourished in Central  America between 250-900 CE, its earlier beginnings and subsequent collapse, and aspects of its economic  and social basis and artistic and intellectual achievements. 		

CAS AR 283: North American Archaeology
	North American prehistory from initial peopling of continent to development of complex societies.  Explores human entry into the New World; migration across North America; subsistence changes; human  effects on landscape; encounters with Europeans; role of archaeology in contemporary native cultures.		

CAS AR 290: Human Impacts on Ancient Environments
	Examination of human impacts on the global landscape over the past 10,000 years through migration,hunting, disease, agriculture, and other cultural activities; implications for contemporary and future  resource management and environmental policy.		

