CAS LT 492: Ds Turkish
			

CAS LW 111: First-Semester Wolof
	For beginners. Develops proficiency in oral expression, listening comprehension, reading, writing, and  cultural understanding. Uses the communicative approach to cover the three main varieties of Wolof as spoken in the Senegambian region.		

CAS LW 112: Wolof 2
	This four-skill African language course in second-semester Wolof leads toward proficiency in oral  expression, listening comprehension, reading, cultural understanding, and writing (using both the Latin  alphabet and the Arabic-based script known as Wolofal or Ajami).		

CAS LW 211: Wolof 3
           			This third semester four-skills Wolof course develops communicative competence and confidence in the  use of Wolof in speaking, reading, writing, and listening in culturally appropriate ways. Students learn to  communicate with native speakers at an intermediate mid level of proficiency.		

CAS LW 212: Wolof 4
           			This fourth semester Wolof course develops communicative competence, cultural literacy, and confidence   in the language in reading, writing, speaking and listening. Students learn to communicate at an   intermediate high level of proficiency.		

CAS LW 311: Wolof 5
           			Study and discussion of various contemporary issues in Wolof society and culture, including traditional   and contemporary Wolof literature (folk tales, stories, proverbs, etc.) written in both Latin and Ajami   scripts.		

CAS LW 312: Wolof 6
           			Study and discussion of various contemporary issues in Wolof society and culture, including traditional and contemporary Wolof literature (folk tales, stories, proverbs, etc.) written in both Latin and Ajami scripts.		

CAS LW 411: Wolof 7
           			Develops students' proficiency at the advanced-high level in oral expression, listening  comprehension,  reading, and writing in both Ajami and Latin scripts. Students apply their language skills to professional  fields, the humanities, and social sciences.		

CAS LW 412: Wolof 8
           			Continues to develop students' proficiency at the advanced-high level in oral expression, listening  comprehension, reading, and writing in both Ajami and Latin scripts, and enables students to apply their  language skills to professional fields, the humanities, and social sciences.		

CAS LW 491: Directed Study: Wolof
	Directed study in Wolof.		

CAS LW 492: Directed Study: Wolof
	Directed study in Wolof.		

CAS LX 205: Origins of Writing
	This course is about the origin and development of Greek and Roman alphabets, presented against a   panorama of many writing systems used across the globe. It has a considerable linguistic component   supplemented by historical information about various languages and cultures. Carries humanities   divisional credit in CAS. Also offered as CAS CL 205.		

CAS LX 245: Language and Mind
	Foundations of linguistics as a science, in relation to cognitive science, philosophy of language, and psychology, including a critical overview of the research program initiated by Noam Chomsky. Students read and discuss original works, and write short essays. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS LX 250: Introduction to Linguistics
	Properties that languages share and how languages differ with respect to   structure (sound system, word formation, syntax), expression of meaning,   acquisition, variation, and change; cultural and artistic uses of language;   comparison of oral, written, and signed languages. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.    		

CAS LX 320: Language, Race, and Gender
           			Do women talk differently from men? How do race and ethnicity relate to the way people use language?  This course examines these inter-related questions from the perspective of modern sociolinguistic theory,  analyzing a range of languages and communities throughout the world.		

CAS LX 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LX 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LX 406: The Linguistics of Contemporary English
           			Systematic introduction to the linguistic analysis of modern English (phonology, morphology, syntax) from the perspective of generative grammar. Other topics include: English and its West Germanic relatives, non-standard varieties and the development of standard English, varieties of World Englishes.		

CAS LX 420: Spanish in the United States
