CAS IR 230 Fundamentals of International Politics
Satisfies CAS social sciences divisional studies requirement. Introduction to basic concepts of international politics: the state system and types of states, modern ideologies, legal frameworks of international transactions, and political regions. Also raises key issues such as population, the environment, war, and international law.



CAS IR 242 (SO 242) Sociology of Developing Countries
Globalization and world poverty; how and why over 80% of the world remains poor and inequality increases despite economic modernization and democratization. Addresses urbanization, immigration, religion, politics, development politics, foreign aid, women, drugs, environment, food security. Special attention to Latin American, African, and Asian experiences.



CAS IR 250 (PO 342) Europe and International Relations
Provides an overview of the challenges and problems of West European cooperation and integration since 1945. Fundamental events, data, and political systems of the European Unification process.



CAS IR 251 (PO 151) Introduction to Comparative Politics
Examines different patterns of political development and contemporary politics in Western Europe, Latin America, Africa, and the former Soviet bloc.  Introduces the comparative method in political science and competing theories of political development and political change.



CAS IR 271 (PO 171) Introduction to International Relations
Undergraduate required principal course. Satisfies CAS social sciences divisional studies requirement. Study of basic factors in international relations, Western state systems, the concept of balance of power, nationalism, and imperialism. Primarily for concentrators.



CAS IR 275 (PO 350) The Pacific Challenge
The dynamic growth of Pacific Rim countries poses an impressive array of challenges for the U.S. and the world. Analyzes Japanese trade and defense policies, the rise of the &#8220;mini-dragons&#8221; (Taiwan, South Korea, Hong Kong, and Singapore) and &#8220;new mini-dragons&#8221; (Indonesia, Thailand, and Malaysia), &#8220;Confucian Capitalism,&#8221; democratization (and its failure in China), and legacies of the Indochina war.



CAS IR 292 Fundamentals of International Economics
Undergraduate required principal course. Prereq: CAS EC 101 and EC 102. Basic issues of international finance. Topics include the balance of payment adjustment, theories of exchange rate determination, and case studies in international economic policy. Geared for international relations students; does not count toward economics requirements for economics concentrators.



CAS IR 304 (GE 304) Environmentally Sustainable Development
Traces the emergence of sustainable development as the defining environmental challenge of our times. Surveys and evaluates policies for balancing ecological sustainability and economic development in various parts of the world and at the global level.



CAS IR 310 The Sea and International Relations
Covers the world&#8217;s seas in areas of resource exploitation, use of commercial transport, the deployment of maritime power, environmental issues, possible use by terrorists, and the associated body of international law.



CAS IR 318 (RN 318) Religion and American Foreign Policy
Introduction to the historical roots and contemporary relevance of religion for American foreign policy. Uses conventional chronological approaches to explore key themes that illustrate the role of religion as input and object of American foreign policy.



CAS IR 320 (HI 286) The American Military Experience
Introduction to American military history from the colonial period to the role of military force in contemporary U.S. statecraft. Examines the character of the armed services, the American style of waging war, and the relationship between the military and society.



CAS IR 325 (HI 229) The Great Powers and the Eastern Mediterranean
Looks at the Eastern Mediterranean as a center of Great Power confrontation, and considers its impact on wider international relations; the domestic political results; the role of sea power; and the origins, conduct, and resolution of wars.



CAS IR 328 (HI 382) Turko-Persia in the Twentieth Century
The twentieth century history of the non-Arab Muslim Middle East, i.e., Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan, and Central Asia. Analysis of the constitutional revolutions in Turkey and Iran, Kemalism, the Islamic revolution in Iran, and communism in the Soviet Union and Afghanistan.



CAS IR 329 (HI 385) Premodern Iran
Covers the history of the Iranian plateau and adjacent areas from the eve of the Muslim conquest of the Sasanian Empire (early 7th century) to the eve of the Constitutional Revolution of 1906.



CAS IR 330 Diplomatic Practice
Introduces the practice of diplomacy as management of a country&#8217;s foreign relations with a view to secure or restore peace. The nation state in diplomatic relations; foreign ministries, diplomatic missions, embassies, and consulates; the peacekeeping role of international law and international government organizations.



CAS IR 333 (PO 327) Non-State Actors in International Relations
Examines the important role of non-state actors in international relations. Non- state actors include sub-national governments, international organizations, multinational corporations, non-governmental organizations, religious groups, violent groups, for-profit security firms, social movements, and grassroots organizations.



CAS IR 341 (HI 278) Central Europe
Intellectual, cultural, political, diplomatic, and military history of the region between Germany and Russia from the Middle Ages to the present.



CAS IR 349 (HI 289) History of International Relations, 1900 to 1945
Undergraduate required principal course. The causes and consequences of the First World War; the search for postwar reconstruction and stability during the twenties; economic collapse, revolutionary nationalism, and fascism during the 1930&#8242;s; the Second World War and the advent of the bipolar world.



CAS IR 350 (HI 290) History of International Relations since 1945
Undergraduate required principal course. The causes and consequences of the Soviet-American Cold War from its origins in Europe to its extension to Asia, Africa, and Latin America. The rise of the multipolar international system, the emergence of the nonaligned blocs, and inter- and intra-alliance conflicts.



CAS IR 351 (PO 377) Africa in International Politics
Introduction to the international relations of post-colonial Africa. Core themes include the politics of post-independence international alignments, the external causes and effects of authoritarian rule, and Africa&#8217;s role in the global political economy.



CAS IR 352 (PO 378) Intl Human Rights: Applying Human Rights in Africa
Studies the growing international influence on politics of human rights principles, documents, and organizations, drawing especially on African cases such as Congo, Zimbabwe, and Sudan.  Topics include universality vs. cultural relativism, individual vs. group rights, and issues in human rights enforcement.



CAS IR 358 (WS 360) Global Feminism: Race and Gender in International Relations
Exploration of critical issues concerning women, gender, and race throughout the world. Topics include women and the global economy, health care, reproduction, the dynamics of sex industries, violence against women, international women&#8217;s movements, and political/institutional change.



CAS IR 360 (PO 383) Making Sense of the World: The Conceptual Found. of IR
Introduction to various analytical approaches for understanding the dynamics of global interaction. Explores the variety of &#8220;worlds&#8221; made visible through the lens of theory. Fosters critical thinking about how conceptual tools shape our understanding of the world and attempted solutions to global problems.



CAS IR 362 European Politics
Comparative study of politics in member states of the European Union, with emphasis on political development, institutions, major issues in contemporary politics, and the impact of European integration.  Selective references to original and new member states of the EU.



CAS IR 363 (PO 370) Soviet Politics 1917-1991
Analysis of the structure of major political institutions &#8211; government bureaucracy, Communist Party, and others &#8211; and policy-society relations during the seventy-four years of the USSR&#8217;s existence. Prime focus is institutional rather than historical, and deals with the Soviet politics &#8220;game&#8221; as it was played.



CAS IR 364 (PO 371) The Politics of Post-Communist Russia
Analysis of the emergent political forces, institutions, and alliances in the post-Soviet Russian Federation, against the background of the unresolved economic, ethnic, and social problems that are the USSR&#8217;s legacy to the &#8220;new Russia.&#8221; Prospects for stabilization are assessed in the context of the multiple crises facing Russia today.



CAS IR 365 (PO 352) Rise of China
Focuses on China&#8217;s political, economic, and strategic development since 1949. It examines three questions: In what ways is China rising? How did it happen? What are the impacts of China&#8217;s rise on the U.S. and the global system?



CAS IR 367 (PO 360) Introduction to Latin American Politics and Intl Relations
Introduction to the patterns and complexities of Latin American politics and international relations. Focuses on the distinctive Latin American political experience and alternative explanations for it, including colonization, the international economy, and human and material resource capacity and utilization.



CAS IR 368 (EC 368) Contemporary East Asian Economics
Prereq: CAS EC 101, EC 102, OR EC 111, EC 112. An introduction to the economics of Japan, Korea, and Taiwan. Topics include Japanese firms, labor markets, finance, monetary and fiscal policies, industrial policies, and Taiwanese and Korean post-1960 economic development.



CAS IR 369 Southeast Asia in World Politics
Prereq: CAS IR 271 or CAS PO 251. Examines Southeast Asia as an important emerging political, economic, and security region in world politics. Background materials, including the region&#8217;s history, cultural diversity, and geo-strategic position are given weight in the course.



CAS IR 370 (PO 351) China: From Revolution to Reform
Introduction to modern Chinese politics including the development of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and the political development of the PRC since its founding in 1949. Focus is on the party&#8217;s official policy and its changing relationships with the people of China.



CAS IR 372 (PO 355) International Relations of South Asia
Introduction to South Asia and regional conflict and cooperation.  Focus on India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Sri Lanka inter-state relations; great power interventions; power distributions; norms; political, military, and economic conflict and cooperation.



CAS IR 373 (PO 384) Global Governance and International Organization
Provides an overview of major theoretical perspectives on the creation and function of international organizations, comparative case studies of selected organizations, and an examination of present and future roles of international organizations in selected issue areas.



CAS IR 374 Introduction to Security Studies
Satisfies CAS social sciences divisional studies requirement. Analysis of the factors determining national and international security. Examines the historical relationship between military power and politics. Topics include causes of war, conduct of war, prevention of war.



CAS IR 375 (PO 372) Introduction to Russian and Post-Soviet Foreign Relations
Decisive factors in the foreign relations of Russia and the other former Soviet republics, including historical continuity and change, survival and and change of ideology, domestic politics, economic and geographical factors, military and external political considerations. The future of arms control, nuclear weapons, the economy, and relations among the former republics are also examined.



CAS IR 376 (HI 288) American Foreign Policy
America&#8217;s tradition and heritage in foreign policy. American foreign policy during the Cold War. Conflicting approaches to the formulation of American foreign policy in the current international environment. Domestic and institutional actors in policy formulation: Congress, media, Presidency, CIA, military.



CAS IR 378 Intelligence in a Democratic Society
The intelligence process and its role in democratic societies; the organization and functions of the U.S. intelligence community; techniques of intelligence collection, analysis, counterintelligence and covert action; assessment of problems and attempted solutions in the United States and other democracies.



CAS IR 380 American Foreign Policy:  Practice &amp; Process
How U.S. foreign policy is made.  After a historical introduction, focus on the external bureaucratic, societal, and leadership forces that combine to shape broad policy lines and particular initiatives that produce feedback influencing the future.



CAS IR 381 US-Pakistan Relations
Examines the history and current state of U.S.-Pakistan relations. Considers the political and strategic complexities of the bilateral alliance as well as Pakistan&#8217;s key role in the international relations of South Asia, Central Asia, and the Muslim world.



CAS IR 382 (GE 382) Understanding the Middle East
Introduces the contemporary Middle East, including the Arab World, Iran, Israel, and Turkey; examines the systems of government; the role of external powers; the origins of the state system; the sources and objectives of opposition forces; the prospects for political reform, including democratization; and the prospects for future cooperation or conflict.



CAS IR 383 (PO 376) Understanding Modern North Africa
Considers political, cultural, economic, and social developments in the modern states of Morocco, Tunisia, Algeria, and Libya as they struggle to gain independence from colonial domination and to consolidate viable, secure, and legitimate states and prosperous national communities.



CAS IR 390 (PO 329) International Political Economy
Prereq: CAS EC 101 and EC 102. Emphasizes the dynamic interaction between politics and economics to understand and explain historical and contemporary issues in international political economy, including international monetary, trade, investment, financial, and environmental relations. Considers emerging challenges and structures in the international political economy.



CAS IR 394 (AA 395/HI 352) Power, Leadership, Governance-Africa/Carribean.
Haitian Revolution; British Caribbean, leadership, governance, and power in Africa during the period of legitimate trade; visionaries, dictators, and nationalist politics in the Caribbean; chiefs, western elites, and nationalism in colonial Africa; road to governance in post-colonial Caribbean and Africa.



CAS IR 395 (PO 328) North-South Relations
Employs a multidisciplinary approach to analyze the relations between the industrialized nations of the &#8220;North&#8221; and the developing nations of the &#8220;South.&#8221; Addresses historical and current issues in North-South relations, including trade, investment, migration, regional economic integration, and the environment.



CAS IR 397 (HI 381) History of Modern Iran
Geographical/historical background; social structure, ethnic, religious, and linguistic diversities; Anglo-Russian interventions; consequences of tobacco concession; constitutional revolution and reform; Qajar legacy; centralization, secularization, modernization under Pahlavis; oil and Mossadeg; autocracy and revolution; liberals, communists, fundamentalists, and Islamic revolution.



CAS IR 410 Latin America Today: An Interdisciplinary Approach
Capstone course for Latin American Studies Program concentrators. Seminar on a key issue in contemporary Latin America. Includes presentations by Latin American Studies faculty on the topic from the specific perspectives of their academic specialties.



CAS IR 411 (PO 566) Conflict and Conflict Resolution in Latin America
Examines a range of historical and contemporary conflicts and wars in Latin America, both internal and regional, examining their causes and consequences, and the most important factors that explain how they were resolved or why they persist.



CAS IR 425 (SO 420) Seminar: Women and Social Change in the Dev. World
Studies women in nonindustrial countries of Asia, Africa, and Latin America, stressing empirical research, theory, and methodology. Comparisons between regions and with industrial countries. Focus on sex segregation, female labor force participation, migration, fertility, family roles, and women and political power.



CAS IR 436 (HI 436) The Great War and the Fragile Peace
Exploration of the military, political, social, economic, and cultural consequences of the First World War and the peace conference of 1919. Focuses on technological innovations, the expanded role of the state, and the long-range impact of the Versailles settlement.



CAS IR 441 (PO 458) Immigration and Development in Asia
Transnational immigration and economic development in Asia, focusing on China, India, and South Korea. Cases examined include the rise of manufacturing prowess in China, India&#8217;s software industry, and Korea&#8217;s corporate competitiveness in the world. <a href="http://www.bu.edu/pardeeschool/profile/min-ye/">Ye</a>



CAS IR 447 (SO 447) Global Sociology
Prereq:  Junior or higher standing and at least two previous sociology courses, or consent of instructor.  Examines different sociological perspectives on global social dynamics and processes.



CAS IR 452 (PO 539) Topics in European Politics and Culture
Prereq: junior standing and consent of instructor.  Explores European politics through the lens of culture, using materials from literature, film, and the social sciences, including live sessions with European writers/artists. <a href="http://www.bu.edu/pardeeschool/profile/vivien-a-schmidt/">Schmidt</a>



CAS IR 465 (HI 465) The United States and the Cold War
Examination of American Cold War foreign policy from its origins at the end of World War II through its conduct &#8211; Marshall Plan, Détente, Cold War II &#8211; to the collapse of the Berlin Wall and the Soviet Union. Reading seminar. <a href="http://www.bu.edu/pardeeschool/profile/william-r-keylor/">Keylor</a>


CAS IR 501 (PO 554) Conflict &amp; Cooperation in Asia
Prereq: Junior or higher standing or consent of instructor. Investigates patterns of conflict and cooperation in South and East Asia surrounding issues ranging from water resources and health to borders and war. Analyzes how such issues contribute to instability in the region, as well as methods of cooperation.



CAS IR 502 (PO 561) Latin American Political Parties
Parties and party systems of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and Venezuela.  Historical origins and labor incorporation.  Populist, working-class, and hegemonic parties.  Market reform and party system transformation or collapse.  Ethnic parties, clientelism, rise of a new Left.



CAS IR 503 (PO 503) The U. S. in the Middle East
Prereq:  Senior, graduate student, or consent of instructor. Examines the historical development and present status of the United States&#8217; association with the Middle East: American commercial, economic, political, military, and humanitarian interests in the area and their interaction.



CAS IR 505 Arms Control &amp; Proliferation of Weapons
Arms control and disarmament in modern diplomacy. International agreements. Global control and dangers of proliferation of nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons. Impact of terrorism. Small arms and conflict. New ideas in global arms control.



CAS IR 506 India &amp; the World:  The Foreign Policy of a Rising Power
Prereq: Junior or higher standing or consent of instructor. Today, India is a nuclear power with a huge and growing economy. This, along with the rise of China and 9/11, has catapulted India into the international limelight. This course examines India&#8217;s rise, focusing on its foreign policy and international role.



CAS IR 507 Islam &amp; Politics
Investigates the origins and practices of prominent Islamists and grassroots Muslim political movements. Emphasis is on the co-evolution of states and religious movements, the emergence of religious democrats, the dynamics of transnational mobilization, and recognizing politics in unusual places.



CAS IR 508 Islamic Political Movements &amp; U.S. Policy
Studies the origin and impact of various revivalist Islamic political movements and their intersection with U.S. foreign policy. Examines their ideologies, their views of the West, and their contribution to the rise of terrorism.



CAS IR 511 The Middle East Today
A critical survey of the rise and development of modern nations, states, and economies in the Middle East and North Africa since 1900. Provides context and perspective essential for understanding contemporary issues (e.g., peace process, gender relations, religion&#8217;s roles, democracy).



CAS IR 513 (PO 525) Bureaucracy &amp; Governance: A Comparative Inquiry
Prereq: Junior or higher standing or consent of instructor. Bureaucracy is not only credited with underpinning economic development but also blamed for corruption and inefficiency. Exploring both theory and comparative development, this course looks at some of the most basic and important issues informing our understanding of governance.



CAS IR 514 (HI 533) Empire &amp; Power:  British Foreign Policy, 1782 - Present
Examines the evolution of British foreign policy over time as well as the nature of Great Power rivalry. Key themes include formulation of national diplomatic strategies, policy coordination, diplomatic vs. military considerations, alliance politics, and policy over-stretch.



CAS IR 516 Intelligence &amp; Homeland Security
Aspects of homeland security, including information and intelligence sharing, the role of first responders, the structure and functioning of the system, and defensive and operational aspects. No prior knowledge of intelligence or security issues required.



CAS IR 517 (PO 543) Seminar in Russian &amp; East European Politics


CAS IR 518 (PO 583) Gender &amp; War
Examines gender constructions in world politics.  Topics include gender biases in international relations theories, female and male roles in war, and rape as an instrument of warfare.  Also assesses roles of women as leaders, actors, and objects of foreign policy.



CAS IR 520 (PO 550) The State &amp; Public Purpose in Asia
Explores how non-communist Asian governments have attempted to advance public purpose, and how organizational factors in countries&#8217; governments affect their ability to do so. These questions are addressed in a comparative framework considering theory and cases.



CAS IR 521 Congress &amp; National Security
Examines the role and influence of congress on the intelligence agencies of the US, Congress&#8217;s oversight of intelligence collection, counterintelligence, covert action and surveillance, in relation to the executive powers.  Explores the influence of espionage on national security policy.



CAS IR 523 (PO 526) Global Justice


CAS IR 524 The Cold War in Latin America
Analyzes the Cold War as experienced in Latin America.  Examines government policies, social movements, economic conditions, and power struggles across Latin America.  Compares episodes of direct and indirect intervention by the United States as well as Latin American responses.



CAS IR 527 (PO 548) Political Economy of China
How did China implement economic reform? What were the progresses and limitations? How is China&#8217;s political-economic development influencing the global system? Discussions are conducted in a comparative perspective. Countries of reference include Japan and India.



CAS IR 529 Cuba in Transition
Analysis of the prospects for peaceful transition in Cuba and the pressures for greater openness and democratization today.  Discussion of the factors that facilitated Castro&#8217;s Revolution and of Cuba&#8217;s continuing impact on the policies of the U.S. and other countries.



CAS IR 531 Intercultural Communication
Examines communicative problems that arise in contact between people from different cultural backgrounds in everyday life, social service encounters, and business transactions. Uses interdisciplinary approaches to study how verbal and nonverbal presentation, ethnic, gender, and cultural differences affect communication.



CAS IR 534 (PO 571) Government &amp; Politics of Contemporary Africa
Analysis of independent black Africa; factors of continuity and change in modern Africa, problems of political order, ambiguities of independence.  Case studies of individual countries selected for additional emphasis on specific issues and problems of developing countries.



CAS IR 535 Diplomacy &amp; Statecraft
Examines the mechanisms and process of diplomacy in historical context, to assess approaches to the implementation of foreign policy, analyze the success and failure of these approaches in different circumstances, and consider wider issues in the application of statecraft.



CAS IR 538 (HI 538) France, Europe, &amp; the World: History of French Foreign Rel. in Modern Times
Prereq:  Consent of instructor.  An advanced research colloquium for history and international relations undergraduate concentrators and graduate students that explores the evolution of France&#8217;s position in Europe and the world from the beginning of the First World War to the present.



CAS IR 542 The Reemergence of Russia
Disintegration of the old Soviet system and signs of a reemerging Russia; careers of Gorbachev and Yeltsin and their attack on the foundations of Stalinism; Moscow’s role in the 1989 revolutions; the August 1991 coup d’ètat. The legacy of communism in the present medical and ecological crisis; current political developments.



CAS IR 543 The Changing Face of Eastern Europe
Domestic and foreign policies of East European states, their relations with the former Soviet Union and with each other. Emphasis is on the period 1989-1992, but recent events are presented with the historical contexts. Analysis of the formation and subsequent implosion of the Soviet sphere in Europe. The collapse of communism in Poland, Germany, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria and its impact on the Soviet crisis, the Western alliance and international relations.



CAS IR 546 Power &amp; Legitimacy: Ideology as a Political Tool
Using original texts from Plato to Havel, political theories and ideologies are studied as instruments of power. Analysis of the relationship between ideas, political elites, institutions, decision-making processes, and legitimacy. Emphasis is on the newly emerged post-totalitarian states.



CAS IR 548 United Nations Peace Operations
Provides an understanding of the problems confronting United Nations-led efforts to prevent armed conflict before it starts, contain and end such conflicts once they start, and create conditions whereby an enduring peace can be maintained.



CAS IR 550 (PO 535) European Integration
Assesses the meaning of &#8220;European Union&#8221; in its domestic, foreign policy and economic dimensions. To understand the opportunities and limits of cooperation and conflict, relevant areas of European Community policy are discussed from a functionalist and realist perspective.



CAS IR 551 (PO 536) Social Europe: Identity, Citizenship, &amp; the Welfare State
Prereq: Junior or higher standing or consent of instructor. The past, present, and future of &#8220;social Europe.&#8221; Impact of European economic and political integration on national identities, cultures, politics, and citizenship; EU policies affecting these social constructions; and changes over time in the welfare state.



CAS IR 552 (PO 544) Nordic Europe
A brief historical overview of the region from the Viking Age to the emergence of the modern states is followed by study of the Nordic countries with respect to the European Union, security arrangements, and assistance to the developing world.



CAS IR 553 Classics of International Relations
Close reading of one or more of the following, with applications of their teachings to historic and contemporary problems: Thucydides, The Peloponnesian War; Xenophon, Anabasis and the Education of Cyrus; Tacitus, The Annals; Sun Tsu, The Art of War; Kau-tilya, The Arthasastra; Persia&#8217;s Shah Nameh; Machiavelli, The Prince and The Discourses; Winston Churchill, The Life of Marlborough; Clausewitz, On War; and Charles DeGaulle, France and Her Army and The Edge of the Sword.



CAS IR 556 Current Intelligence Issues
Examines U.S. intelligence needs, with an emphasis on preparing for international developments in advance. Addresses issues of transnational terrorism and proliferation in addition to traditional concerns such as rogue states, counterintelligence, organized crime, regional rivals, and rising powers.



CAS IR 561 (RN 561) Religion &amp; International Relations
Prereq:  Junior or higher standing or consent of instructor.  Explores role of religion in contemporary international relations in the context of questions about the common core of modernity. Reviews scholarly and policy literature, and case studies, in order to elucidate religion&#8217;s intellectual and operational diversity in international relations.



CAS IR 563 (AN 563) Public Religion &amp; Politics Across Cultures
Prereq:  Junior or higher standing or consent of instructor. The contested role of religion in modern politics and its implications for civil life.  Begins with the West and includes Islam in the Middle East and SE Asia, Evangelism in Latin America and Africa, Hindu nationalism, and Buddhism in China.



CAS IR 566 (PO 567) Democracy in Latin America &amp; Its Challenges


CAS IR 568 (PO 565) U.S.-Latin American Relations
The international context within which Latin American countries operate, with primary emphasis on U.S. policy toward the region. Includes historical overview, the policy-making process itself, and case studies of specific policy issues.



CAS IR 569 Politics &amp; Society in North Africa &amp; the Middle East


CAS IR 573 Introduction to Public International Law
The role of international law in efforts to solve current problems of world order. Emphasis on environmental protection and the regulation of ocean space and resources. The role of law in conflict and cooperation, and the quest for international security.



CAS IR 577 (PO 576) Foreign Policy of the People's Republic of China
Explores China&#8217;s perception of its role in the world, its evolution from a regional to a world power, and its security and economic relationships within the international system. Relationships with the superpowers, Third World, and world economy, focusing on technology and capital transfers.



CAS IR 579 (PO 552) Japan in International Politics
International and domestic influences on Japan&#8217;s international behavior in the past as a predictor of Japan&#8217;s future role in international politics. Covers Japan&#8217;s role in the Cold War, post-war Asia, and the management of the global economy. Examines viability of post-Cold War US.- Japan relationship.



CAS IR 581 The Evolution of Strategic Intelligence
Prereq: Junior or higher standing. Examines the uses of strategic intelligence by modern world leaders in shaping policy and the effects of intelligence on world events. Various uses of intelligence – collecting information, analysis, counterintelligence, and secret operations – are explored with emphasis on the period from the Congress of Vienna to the end of the Cold War.



CAS IR 582 (PO 553) Taiwan: Politics &amp; Transformation
Examines Taiwan&#8217;s history, economic development, ethnic identity, democratization, and its controversial position in international politics as a key to understanding questions of political economy, democratic transition, and East Asian security.



CAS IR 585 (PO 549) Problems &amp; Issues in Post-Mao China
An in-depth examination of politics in post-Mao China, this course focuses on several critical issues, uses various conceptual frameworks to try to understand why the reform process broke down, and examines prospects for the future.



CAS IR 586 Islam in South Asian Politics
Prereq: Senior or higher standing or consent of instructor. Examines the relations among state, politics, and Islam in South Asia, with particular focus on the unsolved conflicts over Kashmir and Afghanistan.



CAS IR 587 Political Economy of the Middle East
Considers the state of the Middle Eastern political economy and focuses on the failure of the rentier state and the difficulty of political and economic liberalization. Themes are petroleum, the uncertain course of political pluralism, and political Islam.



CAS IR 589 (PO 582) North Atlantic/European Security Issues
Examination of the post-Cold War security environment in the North Atlantic and greater European context. Exploration of threats to security, mechanisms in place and emerging (NATO, CSCE, CFE, WEU), and challenges posed by changes since fall 1989.



CAS IR 590 (PO 562) Political Economy of Latin America
Historical and contemporary issues in Latin American political economy. Uses case studies and cross-regional comparisons to assess competing explanations. Analyzes the current political and economic situation facing Latin America in its quest for economic growth and development.



CAS IR 592 Economic Development &amp; International Institutions
Prereq:  Consent of Instructor.  Examines the role of international institutions in economic development. Analyzes how development- related international institutions make rules and affect national policy choices. Applies those lessons to concrete policy challenges, including possibilities for institutional reform.



CAS IR 594 (GE 594) Global Environmental Negotiation &amp; Policy
Key concepts, actors, concerns, and issues related to the process of negotiating global environmental policies. Overviews of the international system and environmental problems; an international negotiation simulation; case studies of global agreement on ozone depletion, climate change, desertification, and biodiversity, among others.



CAS IR 596 (PO 529) Globalization &amp; Contemporary Capitalism in Advanced Industrialized Nations
How has globalization affected national sovereignty and control? Competing hypotheses are examined with specific reference to the internationalization of trade and the financial markets, and its impact on the three postwar models of capitalism.



CAS IR 597 (GE 597) Development &amp; Environment in Latin America
Prereq:  CAS IR 292, CAS IR 590, or CAS GE 100 &amp; junior or higher standing or consent of instructor.  Provides an empirically based understanding of the social and environmental aspects of economic development in Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC) for purposes of analyzing the numerous trade and development policies that nations in LAC are currently considering. <a href="http://www.bu.edu/pardeeschool/profile/kevin-p-gallagher/"> </a>



CAS IR 598 International Business Intelligence &amp; Security Practices
Introduction to practices of international business intelligence and industrial security, including legal and ethical issues, and investment and market analysis for strategic planning. Lectures are supplemented by a team exercise on dealing with risk in the overseas environment.



CAS IR 599 (GE 599) Science, Politics, &amp; Climate Change
Applies a science and technology studies perspective to climate change science and policy. Examines the relationships between scientific and political systems at global, national, and local levels.


A seminar considering the relationship between economics and national security.  The principal theme is the way economic factors fundamentally influence the national security of states, and the way those factors shape and constrain the strategies chosen to pursue that security.



GRS IR 701 Fundamentals of International Relations
Offers a rigorous introduction to the basic concepts of international relations, including analytical approaches, state system and non-state actors, international legal principles, diplomatic practice, and international ethics. Emphasizes history, case study, and practical application.



GRS IR 702 Research Methods for International Relations Practitioners
Provides tools for designing and implementing rigorous research and policy papers. Reviews formulation of research questions and choice of research methods. Introduces methodologies including case study, archival research, and basic quantitative analysis.



GRS IR 703 International Security
Introduces core concepts of international security, including deterrence, balance of power theory, alliance politics, arms races, asymmetric warfare, and non-traditional security concerns such as terrorism. Topics are considered from both a theoretical basis and in historical and contemporary context.



GRS IR 704 Global Economic &amp; Development Policy
Intermediate level survey of the contemporary politics, economics and policy questions in the international economy: theories of international political economy and international economics; politics of international economic institutions; analyses of industrial development, foreign investment, global and regional trade, and poverty alleviation.



GRS IR 706 The Iranian Revolution and Its Impact on the Middle East
This course examines the Islamic Revolution in Iran and its impact on the Middle East.  The first third of the seminar focuses on Iran and, subsequently, the Iran/Iraq war.  Lebanon, the Persian Gulf, and Israel will be studied as they are affected by Iran&#8217;s upheavals.



GRS IR 707 (PO 750) Political Reform in the Middle East
Seminar analyzes and rethinks Middle East politics. Authoritarian governments rule most of the Middle East, but internal and external pressures for change are mounting. Given the tenuousness of the status quo, political reform will be hard to avoid.



GRS IR 711 (AN 711, PO 754) Civil Society &amp; the State
The relationship between civil society and democracy is a subject of major debate, and many scholars contest the notion that the existence of civil society is a sufficient condition for democracy. At best there seems to be a necessary relationship between civil society and democracy, but even this claim is challenged, especially when it is applied to the developing world.



GRS IR 718 International Migration and Diaspora in World Politics
Explores how the movement of people across borders is reshaping world politics.  Impacts of migration on the economy, domestic politics, regional integration, national identity, and the institution of the sovereign nation state.  Historical perspectives and contemporary case studies.



GRS IR 723 (PO 528) The Political Economy of Advanced Industrialized Societies


GRS IR 748 (SO 847) Global Sociology
Prereq:  Permission of Instructor. Examines different sociological perspectives on global social dynamics and processes.



GRS IR 758 (PO 785) Comparative Political Economy of China &amp; India
Compares China and India&#8217;s economic reform, focusing on their reform policies and government-business relationships. Examines their political development (or lack thereof) during their economic reform. Discusses China and India&#8217;s rise and implications for the global system.



GRS IR 759 Money, Development, and Conflict in International Relations
Intensive examination of the roles the IMF, World Bank, and WTO play in the postwar international economic order &#8212; addressing less the decision-making within these institutions and more the issues in which they are involved, including their policies and programs.



GRS IR 760 The Political Economy of the European Union
Investigates major issues of European economic integration, including the Single Market and European Monetary Union.  Explores the theoretical and practical problems of integration.  Considers the crisis of the Euro and and its consequences for European member-states&#8217; economies and democracies.



GRS IR 766 (PO 768) Contemporary Issues in Latin America


GRS IR 778 Problems of Strategic Intelligence
Explores major aspects of strategic intelligence; interrelationship of intelligence and other aspects of foreign policy; performance of U.S. intelligence community; and intelligence as a tool in the formulation of foreign policy. <a href="http://www.bu.edu/pardeeschool/profile/arthur-s-hulnick/">Hulnick</a>



GRS IR 780 CIA's National Clandestine Service
The National Clandestine Service spends 5% of the US Intelligence budget but receives 95% of public and private scrutiny. Examines the unique legal mandate and culture of the clandestine service: espionage, covert operations, counterintelligence, and special operations.



GRS IR 786 (PO 786) Conflict &amp; State-Building in Africa


GRS IR 788 (PO 789) International Relations of Asia-Pacific
Focuses on the international relations of the Asia-Pacific region. Analysis of issues that have defined regional relations: the impact of the Cold War and its aftermath, the impact of regional economic growth and dynamism; and the emergence of contention over regional identity and its relationship to global politics.



GRS IR 789 Globalization, Development, Governance
Prereq:  IR 704 or permission of instructor. Covers the latest theory and evidence related to international trade and development policy. Additional focus on how these issues are dealt with by the World Trade Organization (WTO) and international economic agreements.



GRS IR 794 (GE 794) Current Issues in International Environmental Affairs
Seminar explores key concepts related to regimes and environmental diplomacy and focuses on a selected set of contemporary issues in international environmental affairs. Seeks to foster research and writing on the negotiation and implementation of environmental treaties.



GRS IR 796 Cultural Heritage and Diplomacy
(Meets with GRS AR 796.) Considers the place of heritage in archaeology and cultural diplomacy; art and architecture as cultural ambassadors; culture representation in museums and cultural landscapes; international art law; cultural affairs in U.S. embassies; the State Department; strategic impact of heritage in promoting U.S. foreign policy.



GRS IR 798 (EC 798, GE 798) Global Development Capstone


GRS IR 799 Master's Paper Workshop
Provides structure and support to MA Paper writers. Goals include formulating researchable questions, creating viable research and writing strategies, and critiquing intermediate efforts. Focuses on creating an environment of peer feedback. IR 799 is normally taken twice &#8211; for two credits in the Fall term and two credits in the Spring term.  Students who study abroad during the Fall term of their second year take IR 799 once, for four credits, in the Spring term of their second year. Students who have not finished their MA Paper by the end of the second term of IR 799 will be assigned an &#8216;Incomplete&#8217; grade for that term.  If the MA Paper is not completed within one year after finishing the IR 799 class, the &#8216;Incomplete&#8217; grade will become permanent.



GRS IR 825 (SO 820) Women &amp; Social Change in the Developing World
Studies women in nonindustrial countries of Asia, Africa, and Latin America, stressing empirical research, theory, and methodology. Comparisons between regions and with industrial countries. Focus on sex segregation, female labor force participation, migration, fertility, family roles, and women and political power.

