GRS RN 648: Rumi and Persian Sufi Poetry
	Introduction to the Persian Sufi poet Rumi's narrative and lyric writings. Beginning with an introduction to Islamic mysticism, studies the innovative aspects of Rumi's poetry and the problem of profane vs. sacred love. All readings in English translation. 		

GRS RN 660: Daoist Religion
	A historical survey of the Daoist traditions in China. The philosophy of Lao-tzu and Chuang-tzu and Han dynasty religion. Early Daoist movements, as well as the heyday of the religion in the Six Dynasties and the Tang. Modern Daoism as it was first formed in the Tang dynasty is also discussed.		

GRS RN 661: Confucian Religion
	Religious aspects of Confucianism, with attention to the Analects. Topics include ceremony, song and  poetry, morality and sagehood, ancestral sacrifice; establishment of Confucianism as state religion; role of  women; and modernity.		

GRS RN 663: Zen Buddhism
	A study of Zen teachings and practices as a sect of Chinese and Japanese Buddhism, as a philosophic system, and as a pattern of culture. 		

GRS RN 664: Buddhist Literature
	Focuses on Buddhist sutras and other literature to explore key issues of doctrine, philosophy, and praxis in the Theravada and Mahayana traditions of Buddhism. Topics include the Buddha's life, practicing the path, emptiness, and interdependence.		

GRS RN 668: American Evangelicalism
	Major trends in American Evangelicalism, from the colonial awakenings and religious reform to the  contemporary Christian Right. Focus on how evangelicals have negotiated and shaped central tenets of  American culture, including understandings of gender, race, performance, nation, sexuality, and  economics.		

GRS RN 675: Culture, Society and Religion in South Asia
	An ethographic and historical introduction to the Indian subcontinent with a focus on the impact of religion  on cultural practices and social institutions.  Topics to be covered include kinship, gender, geography, linguistic diversity, ethnicity, ritual, agriculture, economics and politics, expressive tradition, colonialism and nationalism and communal violence.		

GRS RN 682: History of Religion in Pre-Colonial Africa
	The study of the development of religious traditions in Africa during the period prior to European  colonialism. An emphasis on both indigenous religions and the growth and spread of Judaism, Christianity,  and Islam in the continent as a whole. Also offered as GRS AA 882 and GRS HI 749.		

GRS RN 684: The Holocaust
	Background of German (and European) anti-Semitism. Rise of Nazism and early oppression, initial Jewish reaction, mechanics of destruction, ghettos, camps, world response and nonresponse, literature of the Holocaust, and religious implications. 		

GRS RN 685: Representations of the Holocaust in Literature and Film
	Questions of representation in literature and film about the Holocaust, including testimonial and fictive  works by Wiesel and Levi, Ozick, and others; films include documentaries and feature films. Discussions of  the Holocaust as historical reality, metaphor, and generative force in literature.		

GRS RN 687: Anthropology of Religion
	Myth, ritual, and religious experience across cultures. Special attention to the problem of religious  symbolism and meaning, religious conversion and revitalization, contrasts between traditional and world  religions, and the relation of religious knowledge to science, magic, and ideology. Also offered as GRS AN  784.		

GRS RN 690: Archaeology in the Holy Land
		In Israel, archaeology is part of current events. We study material remains from the Israelite to the Muslim  conquests (c. 1200 BCE -- 640 CE) to learn how physical evidence is created and still plays a role in a  larger historical drama. Also offered as GRS AR 742.		

GRS RN 696: Philosophy of Religion
	Critical survey of the manner in which philosophers over the centuries have evaluated the truth and value claims of various religions. Focus on Hegel and  the nineteenth-century emergence of "philosophy of  religion" as a subdiscipline of philosophy and theology.  		

GRS RN 697: Topics in Philosophy and Religion
	Topic for Fall 2014: Philosophy and the Future of Religion. Examines key questions in the contemporary  philosophy of religion, including the possibility of religion without God, "naturalized" or scientific views of  religion, religious pluralism, and inter-religious tolerance. Featuring visiting lecturers in fall Institute for  Philosophy and Religion lecture series. Also offered as GRS PH 656.		

GRS RN 710: Religion, Community, and Culture in Medieval Spain
	Interactions between Muslims, Christians, and Jews in medieval Europe's most religiously diverse region --  from the establishment of an Islamic al-Andalus in 711 CE to the final Christian "reconquest" of the  peninsula and expulsion of the Jews in 1492 CE. Also offered as GRS HI 710.		

GRS RN 712: Theology of Christian Mysticism
	A concentrated venture in philosophical theology. This lecture, reading, and discussion course centers on the thought, not the praxis, of selected major mystics in the Christian tradition. Overviews Greek philosophical backgrounds then moves to a close examination of Eckhart, Nicolas of Cusa, Boehme, and William Blake. 		

GRS RN 720: Maimonides
	A study of major aspects of the thought of Maimonides. Primary focus on the Guide of the Perplexed, with attention to its modern reception in works by Baruch Spinoza, Hermann Cohen, Leo Strauss, and others.		

GRS RN 723: Core Texts and Motifs of World Religions: West
		An intensive seminar in primary texts and key ideas of theology and religious philosophy as developed in representative world religions: Judaism, Christianity, Islam. First course in a year-long sequence. Each semester may be taken independently. Also offered as STH TT 901.		

GRS RN 724: Core Texts and Motifs of World Religions: East
		An intensive seminar in primary texts and key ideas of theology and religious philosophy as developed in representative world religions: Hinduism, Buddhism, Daoism, Confucianism. Second course in a year-long sequence. Each semester may be taken independently. Also offered as STH TT 902.		

GRS RN 725: Topics in South Asian Religion
	Specific aspects of South Asian religions within a historical or comparative/phenomenological framework.  Topic for Fall 2014: Lived Islam. South Asian religions can be studied as textual traditions or as contextual  ones. This  seminar explores how Islam is lived on a daily basis by Muslims of the Indian Subcontinent.  Emphasis on orthopraxy over orthodoxy.		

