GRS IR 794: Current Issues in International Environmental Affairs
	Seminar explores key concepts related to regimes and environmental diplomacy and focuses on a selected set of contemporary issues in international environmental affairs. Seeks to foster research and writing on the negotiation and implementation of environmental treaties.  Meets with EE794		

GRS IR 798: Global Development Capstone
		(Meets with GRS EC 798 and GE798.) Capstone course for MA students in Global Development Policy and Global Development Economics. Students, working in groups, design and carry out an interdisciplinary policy analysis comparable to those performed for a government or nonprofit agency.		

GRS IR 799: MAIA Paper Workshop
	Provides structure and support to MAIA Paper writers. Goals include formulating researchable questions,  creating viable research and writing strategies, and critiquing intermediate efforts. Focuses on creating an  environment of peer feedback. Normally taken twice, in two consecutive semesters, by MAIA students.  Cannot be taken more than twice for credit.		

GRS IR 825: Seminar: Women and Social Change in the Developing World
	(Meets with GRS SO 820.) Studies women in nonindustrial countries of Asia, Africa, and Latin America, stressing empirical research, theory, and methodology. Comparisons between regions and with industrial countries. Focus on sex segregation, female labor force participation, migration, fertility, family roles, and women and political power.		

GRS LF 621: Reading French for Graduate Students
	Designed for graduate degree candidates preparing for language reading examinations. Develops skills in interpreting written French with minimal phonological or cultural references. Practice in translating passages relating to the sciences and humanities. No previous knowledge of French required. Students will not receive graduate credit for this course and there is no tuition charge.		

GRS LF 850: Topics in French Literature
	Satisfies departmental theory requirement. Topic for Fall 2014: The Golden  Age of Theory. An examination  of the vicissitudes of a series of speculative readings, mostly French, of a  number of texts, mostly  Germanic, as they converged to form the literary tradition known as "theory."   Readings from Saussure,  Derrida, Laplanche, Deleuze, Lacan, and Foucault.		

GRS LF 860: Seminar: Topics in French Literature
	Two topics are offered 2014/2015. Students may take one or both for credit. Topic for Fall 2014:  Rebellious Women: Engendering Texts and Films in French. Close reading of selected texts and films by  major 20th-21st-century women writers and filmmakers. Attention to gender, postcolonial, and  transnational cultural studies, and to the politics of form. Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

GRS LF 951: Directed Study: French Language and Literature
	Hours arranged. Consent of instructor and department.		

GRS LF 952: Directed Study: French Language and Literature
	Hours arranged. Consent of instructor and department.		

GRS LG 621: Reading German for Graduate Students
	Designed to prepare graduate students for the German reading exam. Develops a knowledge of the fundamentals of German grammar. Practice in translating passages. No previous knowledge of German required. Students will not receive graduate credit for this course and there is no tuition charge.		

GRS LG 951: Directed Study in German Language and Literature
				

GRS LG 952: Directed Study in German Language and Literature
		Hours arranged.		

GRS LI 621: Reading Italian for Graduate Students
           			Designed for graduate degree candidates preparing for language reading examinations. Develops skills in interpreting written Italian with minimal phonological or cultural references. Practice in translating passages relating to the sciences and humanities. No  previous knowledge of Italian required. Students will not receive graduate credit for this  course and there is no tuition charge.		

GRS LI 951: Directed Study in Italian Language and Literature
		Hours arranged.		

GRS LI 952: Directed Study in Italian Language and Literature
		Hours arranged.		

GRS LL 690: Proficiency-Based Language Teaching 1
           			Introduces students to current language teaching methodologies and effective proficiency- and standards- based instruction. Students develop their own pedagogy projects with appropriate assessment parameters  addressing all four language skills.		

GRS LL 691: Proficiency-Based Language Teaching 2
           			Fosters professional outlook on language teaching and learning. Students deepen their  knowledge of  instructional technologies, further develop proficiency-based pedagogy projects for their own courses, and  prepare teaching philosophies, conference presentations, and other portfolio  materials.		

GRS LL 699: Teaching College Languages I
	The goals, contents, and methods of instruction in languages. General teaching-learning issues. Required of all teaching fellows. 		

GRS LP 951: Directed Study: Portuguese
           			Hours arranged. Consent of instructor and department.		

GRS LP 952: Directed Study: Portuguese
           			Hours arranged. Consent of instructor and department.		

