GRS HI 749: History of Religion in Precolonial Africa
	The study of the development of religious traditions in Africa during the period prior to European  colonialism. An emphasis on both indigenous religions and the growth and spread of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam in the continent as a whole. Also offered as GRS AA 882 and GRS RN 682.		

GRS HI 750: History of the Atlantic World
		Examines the various interactions that shaped the Atlantic World, connecting Europe, Africa, and the  Americas between 1400 and 1800. Begins by defining the political interaction, then emphasizes cultural  exchange, religious conversion, and the revolutionary era. Also offered as GRS AA 885. This course cannot  be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered GRS HI 885.		

GRS HI 751: Environmental History of Africa
	Focus on the African environment and ecological systems over the past 150 years. Topics include climatic  change, hydrography, agriculture, deforestation, soil erosion, disease, conservation, famine, and the role  of colonialism and government policy in environmental change. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered GRS HI 894.		

GRS HI 761: Black Radical Thought
	Black radical thought in America, Europe, and Africa since the eighteenth century through writings of  abolitionists, leaders of revolutions and liberation movements, Black nationalists, and Black socialists. Emphasizes the global nature of the "Black World" and its role in world history. Also offered as GRS AA 888.  This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered GRS HI 888.		

GRS HI 800: European Historiography
	Examines historical writing about Europe through changing trends in method and approach. This course  cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was  previously numbered GRS  HI 700.		

GRS HI 801: The Historian's Craft
	Intensive training in the best practices of historical research, writing, publication, and oral presentation. Culminates in the production of a publishable journal article. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered GRS HI 701.		

GRS HI 843: Problems in Twentieth-Century History
	An international and comparative approach to major problems of the twentieth century. Readings on such topics as modernization, urbanization, revolution, and war and its consequences. Topics change annually. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered GRS HI 743.		

GRS HI 849: United States History 1830 to 1900
	Historiographic investigation of various central themes in nineteenth century US history, covering the years  1830-1900.  Introduces students to scholarship on such issues as plantation slavery; abolition; Civil War;  Reconstruction; and race relations after the Civil War. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to  the course with the same title that was previously numbered GRS HI 749.		

GRS HI 850: American Historiography
	Examines the methodological and professional development of American historians since the 1880s,  changes in the field since the founding period, and new directions in U.S. history. This course cannot be  taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered GRS HI 750.		

GRS HI 852: Readings in American History
	Introduces graduate students to new and recent work in United States history. Readings are tailored to  students' particular needs and special emphasis is placed on strategies to prepare for oral exams. This  course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course entitled "Readings in American Political History"  that was previously numbered GRS HI 752.		

GRS HI 859: The United States as a World Power
	Meets with CAS PO 578. The course material is organized along a debate format. Although the course is primarily concerned with twentieth-century U.S. foreign policy, attention is also given to eighteenth- and   nineteenth-century issues. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same   title that was previously numbered GRS HI 759.		

GRS HI 863: Topics in American Intellectual History
	Introduces graduate students to major methods and themes in the field of U.S. intellectual history. This  course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered GRS HI 763.		

GRS HI 870: African Historiography
	Examines historical writing about the African continent through key trends in the study of themes and regional historiographies.  Also highlights recent works in the field. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered GRS HI 770.		

GRS HI 877: Problems in African History
	A research seminar in comparative urban history which focuses on, but will not be limited to, cities in Africa. Each student is our resident expert on the history of a city of his or her choice. This course cannot be  taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered GRS HI 777.		

GRS HI 900: Dissertation Writing
		A workshop designed for students writing a dissertation that provides them with critical responses to their work and addresses important issues associated with becoming a professional historian.		

GRS HI 901: Directed Study: American History
	Directed Study on a topic in American History. 		

GRS HI 902: Directed Study: European History
	Directed study on a topic in European History 		

GRS HI 903: Directed Study: African History
	Directed study on a topic in African history. 		

GRS HI 904: Latin American History
	Directed Study on a topic in Latin American history. 		

GRS HI 905: Directed Study: Middle Eastern History
	Directed study on a topic in Middle Eastern history.  		

