GRS PH 828: Sem Phil of Rel
			

GRS PH 854: Seminar in Political Philosophy
			

GRS PH 858: Aesthetics
			

GRS PH 871: Philosophy of Science
	The aim of the course is to clarify the credentials and implications of each position (thus provide students a solid ground for participating in wider cultural debates on rationality and relativism), and to have a better understanding of the recent history and current status of philosophy of science (which is part of necessary training for professional philosophers), through a careful examination of the structure of the arguments adopted by each position in dealing with various issues.		

GRS PH 880: Topics in Philosophy I
	This is a doctoral seminar on the philosophy of ultimacy and the conditions for finite existence. The main texts are in the genre of philosophical theology, and they include explorations of the concepts of persons, primordial consciousness, and spontaneous emergence, based on cross cultural comparative studies. The course deals in detail with Christian symbols and theories of God, in comparison with other traditions. Seminar presentations and a term paper required.		

GRS PH 881: Proseminar for First-Year Graduate Students
           			This seminar is open only to first-year PhD students in philosophy, all of whom are required to enroll. The  seminar is designed to help incoming graduate students hone several invaluable philosophical skills,  including those needed for effective presentation and defense of one's ideas. Topics vary by semester.		

GRS PH 882: Topics in Philosophy of Imagination
			

GRS PH 883: Topics in Philosophy
			

GRS PH 901: Directed Research on Thesis
				

GRS PH 902: Directed Research on Thesis
				

GRS PH 905: Directed Study in Problems in Philosophy
				

GRS PH 906: Directed Study in Problems in Philosophy
				

GRS PH 991: Directed Research on Dissertation
				

GRS PH 993: Philosophy Proseminar 1
		A workshop seminar offering advanced graduate students the opportunity to present and discuss work-in- progress (dissertation chapters, papers for job applications, journal submissions). A serious commitment  to regular and continuing attendance is expected.		

GRS PH 994: Philosophy Proseminar 2
		A continuation of GRS PH 993. A workshop seminar offering advanced graduate students the opportunity  to present and discuss work-in-progress (dissertation chapters, papers for job applications, journal  submissions). A serious commitment to regular and continuing attendance is expected.		

GRS PO 699: Teaching College Political Science I
	The goals, contents, and methods of instruction in Political Science. General teaching-learning issues. Required of all teaching fellows. 		

GRS PO 702: Professional Development for PhD Candidates in Political Science
           			For political science PhD students who have finished coursework and are preparing for comprehensive  exams or are working on a PhD prospectus. Addresses core issues in numerous fields and is taught by  members of the GFPS.		

GRS PO 711: Approaches to the Study of American Politics
	Graduate core course. Introduces students to major theoretical, substantive, and methodological problems in the study of American politics by examining two sets of literature: scholarly debates and discussion of theory and research, and the concrete research of leading Americanists. 		

GRS PO 741: Public Policy Analysis
	Seminar in analytical concepts and rational policymaking models applied to each of several issue areas: education, welfare, health care, economy, and the environment in the United States and Europe. 		

GRS PO 750: Political Reform in the Middle East
			

