GRS LS 621: Reading Spanish for Graduate Students
	Designed to prepare graduate students for the Spanish reading exam. Develops a knowledge of the fundamentals of Spanish grammar. Practice in translating passages. No previous knowledge of Spanish required.		

GRS LS 850: Seminar: Topics in Hispanic Literature
	Four topics are offered 2014/2015. Students may take one, two, three, or four for credit. Fall 2014 Section A1: Africa and the Avant-garde. African art and religions influenced defining figures of Western culture from visual arts to  literature and music, producing a phenomenon that touches diverse fields of  knowledge such as history, anthropology, political science, cinema, philosophy, urbanism, literary  criticism, ethnomusicology, and folklore. Fall 2014 Section B1: Sentimental Romance and Celestina.  Explores the development of a new narrative  form, the Sentimental Romance, which was one of the  most innovative genres of the late Middle Ages. A study also of its parody in one of Spain's  masterpieces, La Celestina. Spring 2015 Section A1: TBA. Spring 2015 Section B1: TBA.		

GRS LS 951: Directed Study in Hispanic Language and Literatures
		Hours arranged.		

GRS LS 952: Directed Study in Hispanic Language and Literatures
		Hours arranged.		

GRS LX 699: Teachng Coll Lx
			

GRS LX 951: Directed Study: Linguistics
		Directed study in linguistics. Hours arranged.		

GRS LX 952: Directed Study: Linguistics
		Directed study in linguistics. Hours arranged.		

GRS LY 613: Advanced Arabic for Graduate Students
           			Students are assigned to an Arabic language advisor who supervises placement in an Arabic language course of an appropriate level. May be repeated for credit. 		

GRS LY 614: Advanced Arabic for Graduate Students 2
           			Graduate students are assigned to an Arabic language advisor who supervises their placement in an Arabic  language course at the appropriate level. 		

GRS LY 650: Introduction to Arabic Literature
	Selection of Arabic poetry, short stories, novels, and drama.  Focus on development and refinement of Arabic reading strategies, literary analysis of short passages, and writing and speaking skills. Readings and assignments in Arabic and English.		

GRS LY 720: Media Arabic
           			An advanced Arabic language course that builds skills in reading, listening, discussion, presentation, and  composition while familiarizing students with a broad range of Arab online media and their coverage of  current socio-political and cultural issues.		

GRS LY 741: 1001 Nights in the World Literary Imagination
           			What is The Thousand and One Nights? How has this ever-expanding collection appealed to its diverse audiences? Focus on Nights structure and themes, notable translations and offshoots in western literature and art, and later appropriations by Arab and Muslim writers.		

GRS LY 770: Topics in Arabic Literature
	May be taken multiple times for credit as topics change. Readings and assignments in English; readings  also available in Arabic.Topic for Fall 2014: Russia in the Middle East: Literary Encounters. How have  Russian writers imagined the Muslim world? How have Arab writers imagined Russia and the USSR? What  happened when these fantasies collided during real-life encounters (diplomacy, study abroad, war, exile)?  Knowledge of Arabic or Russian useful but not necessary.		

GRS LY 771: Topics in Arab Culture and Arabic Language
	May be taken multiple times for credit as topics change. Topic for Spring 2015: Arab Culture and Identity  (in English translation). Explores Arab culture primarily through media and the arts. Develops an  understanding of Arab culture focusing on media, film, the arts, language and the Arab Spring in the  context of religious, socio-cultural and political identity.		

GRS MA 614: Statistical Methods 2
           			Second course in statistics, embodying basic statistical methods used in educational and social science  research. Reviews all basic concepts covered in a first statistics course (e.g., CAS MA 613) and presents,  in detail, more advanced topics such as analysis of variance, covariance, experimental design,  correlation, regression, and selected nonparametric techniques. A  problem-solving course; students  carry out analysis of data taken from educational and other social science sources. This course cannot  be taken for credit in addition to the course entitled "Statistical Methods II" that was previously  numbered CAS MA 614.		

GRS MA 647: Research Methods in Mathematics I
           			Methods of mathematical research via prolonged study of one selected mathematical topic. Topics are usually chosen from number theory or combinatorics. Written and oral research presentations.  		

GRS MA 648: Research Methods in Mathematics II
           			Methods of mathematical reserach via prolonged, directed study of one selected mathematical topic, distinct from that chosen for GRS MA 647.  Topics are usually chosen from geometry, number theory, or combinatorics, and may involve open problems. Written and oral research presentation.  		

GRS MA 665: Introduction to Modeling and Data Analysis in Neuroscience
           			An introduction to the basic techniques of quantifying neural data and developing mathematical models of  neural activity. Major focus on computational methods using computer software and graphical methods for model analysis.		

GRS MA 666: Advanced Modeling and Data Analysis in Neuroscience
           			Advanced techniques to characterize neural voltage data and analyze mathematical models of neural activity. Major focus on computational methods using computer software and graphical methods for model analysis.		

GRS MA 671: Chaotic Dynamical Systems
           			For graduate students in disciplines outside of mathematics. Iterations of functions of one or several  variables. Periodicity, stability, chaos, fractals, bifurcations. Julia sets and the Mandelbrot set. Students are  required to perform several experiments on personal computers.		

