GRS BI 940: Research in Neurobiology
			

GRS BI 941: Research in Evolution
			

GRS BI 942: Research in Evolution
			

GRS BI 943: Research in Pharmacology
			

GRS CH 621: Biochemistry I
           			Introductory biochemistry. Protein structure and folding enzyme mechanisms, kinetics, and allostery; nucleic acid structure; lipids and membrane structure; bioenergetics; vitamins and coenzymes; introduction to intermediary metabolism. Three hours lecture, four hours laboratory, one hour discussion. Same as GRS BI 621.  Lecture and laboratory meet with CAS BI/CH 421.		

GRS CH 622: Biochemistry II
		Polysaccharides, energy storage and recognition; intermediary metabolism; lipid and isoprene metabolism; nitrogen metabolism; nucleotide metabolism; macromolecular biosynthesis with emphasis on  specificity and fidelity in the mechanisms of RNA, DNA, and proteins synthesis. Three hours lecture, four hours laboratory, one hour discussion. Same as GRS BI 622.   Lecture and laboratory meet with CAS BI/CH 422		

GRS CH 625: Enzymology: Mechanisms of Enzymatic Reactions
           			Covers enzyme structure-function relationships. A tool-box of methods is presented, including kinetics (steady state and pre-steady state methods), isotope effects, stereo-chemical methods, site-directed mutagenesis, methods to replace natural with unnatural amino acids, mechanism based inhibitors.		

GRS CH 626: Epigenetics
           			Surveys protein post-translational modifications and DNA/RNA processing, including mechanistic enzymology of protein and DNA modifications, signal transduction induced by the modifications, and related practical applications.		

GRS CH 627: RNA Structure and Function
           			Chemical and structural biology of natural RNA molecules, including ribosomal RNA, catalytic RNA (ribozymes), siRNA (small interfering RNA), and other small transcribed RNA molecules. Some attention to biological function, but main focus is not RNA cell and molecular biology.		

GRS CH 629: DNA Nanotechnology
           			Structural biology of DNA. Synthetic DNA objects, DNA templated synthesis, DNAzymes. While biological  function is mentioned, the main focus is DNA in nanotechnology, not the involvement of DNA in cell and  molecular biology.		

GRS CH 631: Advanced Coordination Chemistry I: Structure and Bonding
           			The interdependence of chemical bonding, spectroscopic characteristics, and reactivity properties of  coordination compounds and complexes are described and formalized using the fundamental concept of  symmetry, as applied to inorganic coordination complexes.		

GRS CH 632: Advanced Coordination Chemistry II: Inorganic Reaction Mechanisms
           			The mechanistic study of ligand substitution and electron transfer processes in  coordination compounds  are discussed in the context of basic molecular orbital theory. The connections between small molecule  inorganic and biological macromolecular metal-catalyzed processes are presented.		

GRS CH 633: Physical Methods for Inorganic and Bioinorganic Chemistry
           			A discussion of the physical techniques for the study of structural, magnetic, and redox-active properties  of transitional metal complexes. Techniques discussed include x-ray crystallography; x-ray absorption;  vibrational, NMR, EPR, and Mossbauer spectroscopies; and electrochemistry.		

GRS CH 634: Metallobiochemistry
           			The roles of transition metals in biology are assessed by review of the structural, spectroscopic, and genetic aspects of metallobiochemistry. Metal import and trafficking; cofactor biogenesis; biocatalytic transformations in biochemistry; reactive oxygen species; the inorganic  basis of life.		

GRS CH 641: Physical Organic Chemistry
		Physical fundamentals of organic chemistry. Thermodynamics, kinetics, molecular orbital theory, and  theory of concerted reactions. Isotope effects, aromaticity, linear free energy relationships, acidity  functions, photo- and free-radical chemistry.		

GRS CH 642: Organic Reaction Mechanisms
		Fundamentals of organic reaction mechanisms. Techniques used to study reaction mechanisms. Reactive  intermediates: carbonium ions, radicals, carbenes, and nitrenes. Acid/base catalysis, reactions for the  carbonyl group, cycloaddition, nucleophilic displacement reactions, and redox chemistry.		

GRS CH 643: Synthetic Methods of Organic Chemistry
		Organic synthesis strategies for total synthesis. Various approaches for organic molecules whose synthesis  constitutes major contributions to organic chemistry.		

GRS CH 644: Medicinal Chemistry
		Synthetic organic chemistry and pharmacology as applied to development, testing, and production of  medically useful agents. Lectures and discussions by research chemists affiliated with leading pharmaceutical companies. A research paper is required.		

GRS CH 651: Molecular Quantum Mechanics I
           			Postulates of quantum mechanics with emphasis on chemical applications; application to model systems: particle in a box, harmonic oscillator, rigid rotor, hydrogen atom; tunneling; angular momentum theory, spin; ladder operators, computational methods.  		

GRS CH 652: Molecular Quantum Mechanics II
		The chemical bond; Huckel, molecular orbital, and valence bond theories; ab initio methods, density functional theory; Born-Oppenheimer approximation/breakdown; time-dependent processes; Fermi's golden rule; non-adiabaticity; time-dependent perturbation theory; computational methods.  		

