GRS RN 727: Topics in American Religion
		Topic for Fall 2014: American Spiritual Autobiography. Exploration of the art of portraying the self in the  light of the divine in U.S. history with an emphasis on contemporary work. Possible authors include:  Thomas Merton, Swami Yogananda, Malcolm X, Ann Lamott, Richard Rodriguez, Elie Wiesel, Jarena Lee.		

GRS RN 729: Religion and Politics in South Asia
	Meets with GRS RN 729. Explores the relationship between religion and politics in pre-colonial, colonial,  and post-colonial South  Asia through readings of primary texts as well as debates on religious  reform/revival, nationalism, caste, and partition.		

GRS RN 730: Topics in East Asian Religion
		Topic for Fall 2014: Buddhism, the State, and Politics in East Asia. Analyzes models of the ideal Buddhist  ruler in China, Korea, and Japan and their behaviors both historically and in the present. Topics include  state patronage and persecution of Buddhism as well as Buddhist rebellions and resistance to state control.		

GRS RN 735: Women, Gender,and Islam
		Investigates the way Muslim religious discourse, norms, and practices create and sustain gender and hierarchy in religious, social, and familial life. Looks at historical and contemporary challenges posed to these structures.		

GRS RN 739: Jewish Bioethics
	Exploration of Jewish perspectives on life, death and dying, abortion, the new reproductive technologies, organ transplantation and genetic engineering. Examination of the impact of the Nazi doctors, racial hygiene, euthanasia, and genocide on contemporary bioethics.		

GRS RN 752: Topics in Religious Thought
	Topics vary from year to year. Topic for Fall 2014: Happiness, East and West. What is happiness? How can  we achieve a balanced, healthy, fulfilling life? Classical thinkers such as Aristotle, Plato, Chuang Tzu;  Buddhist, Confucian, Epicurean, and Stoic paths; comparison with contemporary studies of happiness.		

GRS RN 766: Religion and the Problem of Tolerance
	Explores the religious roots of tolerance as an alternative to secular, more liberal foundations for pluralism. Grapples with the challenge of tolerance to the revealed religions and the ways different societies have met or failed to meet this challenge.		

GRS RN 768: Symbol, Myth, and Rite
	Historical overview of ritual behavior, the role of symbolism in the study of culture, and the narrative quality of worldview and belief. Emphasis on verbal performance and public display events in specific cultural contexts		

GRS RN 770: Topics in Medieval Religious Culture
		Topic for Fall 2013: Christian, Muslim, and Jew: Religion, Community, and Culture in Medieval Spain.  Interactions between Muslims, Christians, and Jews in medieval Europe's most religiously diverse region -  from the establishment of an Islamic al-Andalus in 711 CE to the final Christian "reconquest" of the  peninsula and expulsion of the Jews in 1492 CE. Also offered as GRS HI 807.		

GRS RN 794: Magical Texts: Literature &amp; Practice
	An advanced course in the interpretation of ancient magical texts, emphasizing the use of theoretical models (Malinowksi, Tambiah, J.Z. Smith) for understanding a selection of ritual manuals, amulets, binding tablets, and mystical ascent texts from Greco-Roman, Jewish, and Christian antiquity.		

GRS RN 795: Humanities Approaches to Religion
	Introduces major theoretical questions in the humanistic study of religion. Examines the nature and origin of religion as well as definitions and critiques of religion from comparative, historical, sociological, literary standpoints as well as postmodern and gender studies approaches.		

GRS RN 796: Social Science Approaches to Religion
	Introduces major theoretical questions in the social scientific study of religion. Examines approaches of Marx, Durkheim, and Freud among others.		

GRS RN 797: Philosophical and Theological Approaches to Religion
	An introduction to philosophical and theological approaches to the study of religion(s) as distinct from  other humanities-based and social-scientific approaches. Provides a common vocabulary for students pursuing historical, constructive, or interdisciplinary projects related to religious thought.		

GRS SO 699: Teaching College Sociology I
	The goals, contents, and methods of instruction in sociology. General teaching-learning issues. Required of all teaching fellows. 		

GRS SO 701: Advanced Sociological Theory (Classical)
	Primarily for first-year graduate students. Required for master's degree in sociology. Advanced survey and  review of classical sociological theory and theorists.		

GRS SO 702: Proseminar: Sociological Methods
	Designed primarily for first-year graduate students. Review of major sociological methods.		

GRS SO 708: Contemporary Sociological Theory
	Covers the basic elements of the major theoretical paradigms in modern sociology, covering topics and problems in the philosophy of social science and current controversies in the field. 		

GRS SO 712: Qualitative Methods
	Introduces qualitative methods in sociology, highlighting ethnography and interviews. Strengthens  students' evaluation skills, enhances understanding of the logic of qualitative design, and allows students  to employ qualitative methods and develop a research proposal.		

GRS SO 765: The Sociology of Religion
	Explores the relationship between religion and society, considering religious language, symbols,  communities and practices as social phenomena and the social processes at work in congregations and  denominations, new religious movements and conversion, religious communal identity and ethnic conflict.		

GRS SO 803: Seminar: Gender Stratification
	This course will allow students to further their understanding  of the persistence of inequality between women and men in the workforce.  What has changed and what has remained the same?  We will examine the nature and causes of inequality in post/industrial societies, especially in the United sttes.  Students will have the  opportunity to engage in independent scholarship in the seminar, exploring their own questions about gender and work in greater depth.		

