GRS AR 743: Anatolian Archaeology
	An historically oriented survey of the material remains of the ancient cultures of Turkey and northwest Iran from the Neolithic to the Hellenistic period.  Emphasis is on the Hittite Empire and civilizations that succeeded it in the first millennium.		

GRS AR 746: Seminar: The Archaeology of Ancient Egypt
           			Examines the prehistoric and early historical origins of ancient Egyptian civilization, major institutions of the culture, and culture changes through time. Topics studied include changing socio-political organization, demography and the economic system, and beliefs/religion.		

GRS AR 747: Egypt and Northeast Africa: Early States in Egypt, Nubia, and Eritrea/Ethiopia
	Comparative analyses of early states in Egypt and northeast Africa, with a focus on socioeconomic  institutions, kingship, burial practices, and religions, utilizing archaeological as well as textual evidence.		

GRS AR 751: Seminar: Mesoamerican Archaeology
		Advanced seminar covering major events and processes of the Mesoamerican culture region. Topics vary   by semester, but may include issues such as early villages, urbanization, state formation, households,   religion, economy and exchange, and the Spanish conquest and early colonialism.		

GRS AR 770: New World Historical Arachaeology:  Colonial America
	Seminar.  Material culture of the people who colonized North America.  Architecture, artifacts, and a variety of sites - domestic, military, commercial, sepulchral - are studied.  Uses of achival evidence as factual and ethnographic documentation for archaeological interpretation are discussed.		

GRS AR 771: New World Historical Archaeology: Postcolonial America
	Seminar.  The archaeological study of America since the Revolution.  Focus is on the archaeological and artifactual evidence for the development of plantation systems and slavery, induustrial and urban centers, ethnicity, and modern popular culture.		

GRS AR 780: Archaeological Ethics and Law
	In this course students examine archaeology and professional ethics; archaeology as a public interest; legal organization of archaeology; international approaches to heritage management; looting, collecting, and the antiquities market; maritime law and underwater archaeology; cultural resource management in the United States. 		

GRS AR 782: Zooarchaeology
	Introduction to archaeological analysis of animal bones. Provides a basis for the use of faunal remains in  the investigation of paleoecology, analysis of archaeological formation histories, and techniques for  interpreting human subsistence activities.		

GRS AR 790: The Archaeology of Southeast Asia
	Examines the prehistoric and historic cultures of Southeast Asia, including the first arrival of humans, regional neolithic and Bronze Age communities, early states, maritime trading networks, as well as political motivations in archaeology and the illicit antiquities trade.		

GRS AR 795: Politics, Nationalism, and Archaeology
           			Explores how archaeology is shaped by and manipulated for political purposes. Case studies from Asia and around the world trace the development of archaeology during colonial empire-building and post-colonial nationalism, and the importance of archaeological heritage in regional politics.		

GRS AR 805: U.S. Archaeological Heritage Management
	Introduction to the practice of public archaeology in the United States. Historical and legal background; state and federal programs; conducting archaeological investigations; archaeology as business; the public interest; controversies, problems, and prospects in archaeological heritage management. 		

GRS AR 808: Survey and Landscape Archaeology
	Seminar tracing the development of survey and landscape archaeology and their impact on understandings of the social, political, economic, and religious environments of ancients cultures. Weekly discussions and presentations cover a sample of methodological and interpretive approaches.		

GRS AR 810: International Heritage Management
           			Investigation of issues in archaeological heritage management at the international level. Concepts, approaches, challenges, and solutions to problems in the identification, evaluation, conservation, management, and interpretation of cultural resources. Focus on global and regional issues (e.g., legislation, destruction, restoration, and maintenance of heritage).		

GRS AR 815: Plunder and Preservation: Cutural Heritage in Wartime
	Topics include safeguarding of cultural sites, monuments, and objects during armed conflict; history of cultural seizures as spoils of war; destruction of cultural heritage in war; development of legal protections; contemporary approaches to preservation of heritage at risk from war.		

GRS AR 830: The End of Days: Analyzing Collapse in Complex Societies
	Seminar on the archaeology, anthropology, mythology, and history of collapse in complex societies.  Provides students with an in-depth understanding of major issues and challenges in studying the  dissolution and reformulation of complex societies in the ancient world.		

GRS AR 901: Directed Research in Classical Archaeology
	Graduate-level directed research in classical archaeology.		

GRS AR 902: Directed Research in Classical Archaeology
	Graduate-level directed research in classical archaeology.		

GRS AR 903: Directed Research in New World Historical Archaeology
           			Graduate-level directed research in New World Archaeology.		

GRS AR 904: Directed Research in American Historical Archaeology
			

GRS AR 905: Directed Research in Old World Prehistoric Archaeology
	Graduate-level directed research in Old World prehistoric archaeology.		

