GRS AH 846: Seminar: Romanesque and Gothic Art
	Detailed study of the castles, cathedrals, and works of art produced in Anglo-Norman England. Topics include contemporary attitudes toward images, monastic art, allegory, nostalgia, symbolism, parody, the grotesque, building techniques, and patronage. Among the works studied are Canterbury Cathedral, Durham Cathedral, the Tower of London, and the Bayeux Tapestry.		

GRS AH 853: Seminar: Renaissance Art and Architecture
	Topic for Fall 2014: The Pastoral Landscape. The re-emergence of the pastoral as a pictorial and poetic  mode in the Renaissance.		

GRS AH 863: Seminar: Baroque Art and Architecture
	Topic for Fall 2014: Vermeer. This seminar explores Vermeer's art and career through various perspectives  and methods of art history, and attempts to situate his astonishingly small production of about 35  paintings within the cultural and social worlds for which they were created. 		

GRS AH 867: Material Culture
	Introduction to the theory and practice of the interdisciplinary study of material culture, which includes everything we make and use, from food and clothing to art and buildings. Explores contemporary scholarship from a range of disciplines. Also offered as GRS AM 867.		

GRS AH 884: Seminar: Nineteenth-Century Architecture
	Topic for Spring 2010: Inside the Institution. This research seminar examines institutional architecture  from the seventeenth century to the present. Recent scholarship on power relationships, gender ordering,  spatial politics, and the histories of science, medicine, and religion is applied to these building complexes.		

GRS AH 886: Seminar: American Painting
	Topic for Spring 2014: Visual Culture of Slavery and the Civil War. Focuses on the visual culture of  American slavery and the Civil War. Sources to be investigated include paintings, sculpture, book  illustration, graphics in the illustrated weeklies, photography, exhibitions, and organized urban spectacles.		

GRS AH 891: Seminar: Photography
	Historical, archival, and theoretical examinations of photography, with emphasis on its role both as    document and as art. Topic for Fall 2013: The Photographic Book. This seminar examines the photographic  book throughout the years from 1839 to the present.		

GRS AH 892: Approaches to Architectural History
	The aim of the course is to analyze the nature of writings on architecture, to identify their origins, and to discuss the reasons for their success and the consequences of their circulation.		

GRS AH 895: Seminar: Twentieth-Century Art
	Topic for Fall 2014: Paris. This seminar explores the representation of Paris  in a variety of media, from the  Exposition Universelle in 1900 to World War II.  Although literature,  painting, photography, and film  construct different Paris images, common concerns are studied throughout the semester.		

GRS AL 901: Directed Study in Applied Linguistics
		Directed study in linguistics. Hours arranged.		

GRS AL 902: Directed Study in Applied Linguistics
		Directed study in applied linguistics.		

GRS AM 735: Studies in American Culture
		Introduction to handling of primary materials from a number of disciplines in order to develop an American   Studies perspective. Required of all American Studies PhD students.		

GRS AM 736: The Literature of American Studies
		Introduction to classic problems in the interpretation of American society and culture. Required of all  American Studies PhD students.		

GRS AM 747: Historic Building Conservation
		Theory and practicalities involved in conservation of historic buildings.  This course will cover the history and theory of building conservation architectural investigations of building, including documentary, constructional, and finish materials to materials for conservation. 		

GRS AM 755: Preservation Planning Colloquium
		A comprehensive preservation planning and advocacy course in which students in the Preservation Studies Program prepare a planning document under contract with a community.		

GRS AM 776: Housing America
	What do dwellings say about the diversity of American experience? For over four centuries and across a  continent, wealth and poverty, family and community, taste and technology have all shaped the meaning of  home. Illustrated lecturers supplemented by field trips. Also offered as GRS AH 777.		

GRS AM 780: Problems in Historic Preservation
		A research seminar to explore, in depth, changing themes or current issues in historic preservation. 		

GRS AN 699: Teaching College Anthropology I
	The goals, contents, and methods of instruction in anthropology. General teaching-learning issues. Required of all teaching fellows. 		

GRS AN 703: Proseminar: Ethnography and the History of Social Theory in Anthropology
	Intensive introduction focusing on classic works of ethnography, social theory, and the history of the discipline from the mid-19th to the mid-20th century. Required of first-year graduate students and open to students in related disciplines with the consent of the instructor. 		

GRS AN 704: Proseminar: Contemporary Anthropological Theory
		Examination of major theoretical trends and debates in anthropological theory from the 1960s to present.		

