GRS PS 860: Child Therapy
	Child therapy cases and processes are explored from a multitheoretical perspective including systems, analytic, and cognitive-behavioral theories. Empirical research on therapies for specific disorders (e.g., conduct disorders, eating disorders, etc.) are also discussed. 		

GRS PS 874: Seminar: Psychotherapy
	Basic clinical concepts of psychotherapy and their application in the treatment of personality and behavior disorders. Case materials from the students' and instructor's therapeutic work used to illustrate special problems.		

GRS PS 875: Advanced Psychopathology
		This seminar presents an introductory overview to specific clinical disorders and syndromes. Neurobiological, psychoanalytic, behavioral, and social perspectives are emphasized. It is recommended that students have some preparation in physiological psychology. 		

GRS PS 879: The Scientist Practitioner
		To acquaint first year doctoral students in clinical psychology with the role of the scientist-practitioner as a guiding philosophical underpinning to the practice of clinical psychology. A focus will be on the crucial role of the scientist-practitioner in our emerging behavioral healthcare system.		

GRS PS 880: Empirically Supported Treatments of Psychological Disorders
	The goal of this seminar is to become familiar with the efficacy and effectiveness of some of the most important state-of-the-art treatments for various psychological problems. Each participant is expected to present a paper discussing the theory, efficacy, and clinical utility of the selected psychosocial interventions. 		

GRS PS 882: Empirically Supported Child and Family Treatments
		Explores the status of individual- and family-based psychological treatments for  childhood psychopathology that are empirically supported (i.e., whose efficacy has received at least preliminary scientific support). Rationale and controversies are  discussed, and specific treatment models are illustrated through case examples.		

GRS PS 901: Directed Study in Psychology
	Doctoral candidates are encouraged to undertake special projects.		

GRS PS 902: Directed Study in Psychology
	Doctoral candidates are encouraged to undertake special projects.		

GRS PS 909: Professional Issues in Psychological Science 1
           			Prepares advanced doctoral students in psychology for the next stages of their career. Issues covered  include conducting research; writing papers; reviewing for journals; ethical issues in conducting research;  time management; teaching; mentoring; grant writing; presenting research at conferences; and career  planning.		

GRS PS 910: Professional Issues in Psychological Science 2
           			Prepares advanced doctoral students in psychology for the next stages of their career. Issues covered  include conducting research; writing papers; reviewing for journals; ethical issues in conducting research;  time management; teaching; mentoring; grant writing; presenting research at conferences; and career  planning.		

GRS PS 951: Special Topics in Clinical Psychology
	Clinical or laboratory research of clinical faculty and invited speakers, ethical isues in research and clinical practice, professional responsibilities and concerns.		

GRS PS 973: Clinical Practicum
	Open to advanced candidates in clinical psychology, behavioral medicine, nursing, education, and health sciences. Students participate in psychological programs of approved practicum centers, reporting and evaluating their experiences in seminar conferences. Work is directed toward increasing competence in the duties expected in clinical behavioral medicine. 		

GRS PS 974: Clinical Practicum
	Open to advanced candidates in clinical psychology, behavioral medicine, nursing, education, and health sciences. Students participate in psychological programs of approved practicum centers, reporting and evaluating their experiences in seminar conferences. Work is directed toward increasing competence in the duties expected in clinical behavioral medicine. 		

GRS PS 978: Laboratory and Research Practicum
	Open to advanced doctoral candidates in psychology. A review of contemporary research in selected areas. Issues of experimental design, execution, and data analysis are examined in the context of pursuing dissertation research. 		

GRS PS 979: Clinical Internship
           			For clinical doctoral students only. Students complete a one-year clinical internship as part of the requirements for the Ph.D. degree in clinical psychology. 		

GRS PS 980: Clinical Internship
           			For clinical doctoral students only. Students complete a one-year clinical internship as part of the requirements for the Ph.D. degree in clinical psychology. 		

GRS PS 993: Clinical Supervision of Psychotherapy
		For senior graduate level students. Training in the research, theory, and practice of supervision. Students present case material and, under the supervision of a licensed clinician, supervise a novice clinician.		

GRS PS 994: Clinical Supervision of Psychotherapy - Practicum
		Provides clinical training in supervision of psychotherapy skills. Students present actual case material, and, under the supervision of a licensed clinician, supervise a novice clinician.		

GRS PY 677: An Introduction to Evidence-Based Undergraduate STEM Teaching
	Online course with in-person faculty-led sessions. Participants learn about effective teaching strategies  and the research that supports them, and apply approaches to lesson design and assignments for future  teaching opportunities. Also offered as GRS BI 677 and GRS CH 677.		

GRS PY 699: Teaching College Physics I
	The goals, contents, and methods of instruction in physics. General teaching-learning issues. Required of all teaching fellows. 		

