STH CT 800: Field Practicum
	This course encourages theology students to take advantage of opportunities for    practical experience in area churches and/or other related organizations as an    extension of their theological training in the School of Theology. A credit-   bearing course, Field Practicum is established as an elective course that can be    taken for one-half credit in any semester. Any student may enroll in CT 800 for   a  maximum of four semesters, or 2 total credits. A maximum of 2 credits can be    applied to degree requirements for a master's-level degree (MDiv, MTS, MSM) as    free electives. These elective credits may not be substituted for major or minor    coursework in a STM, DMin, ThD, or PhD program but can augment any of these    post-master's degrees.		

STH DM 901: Transformational Leadership
	This course explores diverse perspectives and practices of religious leadership and community   transformation, drawing upon recent research and literature in dialogue with participants' experiences as   community leaders. Students will explore their personal leadership strengths and goals, theological   perspectives and social science findings as regards leadership and transformation, and the insights of   living communities. The purpose is to engage with critical issues and to construct new approaches to   leadership that can contribute to thriving and society-serving communities.		

STH TA 710: Music in World Religions I: The Abrahamic Traditions (Judaism, Christianity,  Islam)
	Music is an integral part of the liturgies of almost every major religion. It is  a traditional element of many rituals connected with the life cycle, and is  often used as a way of mediating one's relationship to God. This course seeks to  put both religion and its music in cultural and historical context. It will use  interdisciplinary methodologies including theological studies and musical  analysis. It aims to provide a basic framework for understanding the issues  surrounding the duties and practices, rituals, scriptures, articles of faith,  holy days, prayers, and denominational differences for each religion in a way  that is comprehensible to the non-musician. 		

STH TA 711: Music of the World's Religions II: The Asian Traditions (Hinduism, Buddhism,   Sikkhism)
	Music is an integral part of the liturgies of almost every major religion. It is  a traditional element of many rituals connected with the life cycle, and is  often used as a way of mediating ones relationship to God. This course seeks to  put both the religion and its music in cultural and historical context. It will  be using interdisciplinary methodologies including theological studies and  musical analysis. It aims to provide a basic framework for understanding the  issues surrounding the duties and practices, rituals, scriptures, articles of  faith, holy days, prayers and denominational differences for each religion in a  way that is comprehensible to the non-musician.  Musical training is preferred  but not essential.		

STH TA 715: Organ Seminar
	Intended for organ majors, but open to others, this course covers repertoire, organ building and   maintenance, technique, performance practice, and keyboard skills (sight-reading, score-reading,   transposition, harmonization, improvisation and continuo). This is a two semester course. MSM organ   majors must enroll in both semesters.		

STH TA 721: Seminary Singers
	Open to all students who are interested in singing. Participation in one weekly  chapel service, all concerts,  and tours. Credit given only on completion of the  second consecutive semester's work. 		

STH TA 722: Seminary Singers
	Open to all students who are interested in singing. Participation in one weekly   chapel service, all concerts, and tours. Credit given only on completion of the   second consecutive semester's work. 		

STH TA 801: Methods and Materials in Sacred Music (online)
	Students will critically engage with materials and approaches in the principal areas of present-day church   musicians including: choral and vocal techniques, conducting, the organ and other instruments, alternative   and contemporary worship, and professional concerns. This course will enable students to gain greater  competencies needed to function at optimal levels as a  music minister or director in worship, religious,  pastoral and educational settings. This will be  accomplished through engagement with the methods and  materials of church/synagogue (sacred) music  and worship.  		

STH TA 804: Seminar: Anthems for the Church Choir
	Historical survey of music repertory for American church choirs: study of performance of various periods and genres of music. Consent of instructor with special consideration given to MSM and SFA students.		

STH TA 805: Music Ministry for Church Leaders
	Music ministry is an essential part of a healthy church, providing beauty in worship, means of community   and avenues for evangelism. This course offers methods and materials to help you integrate, develop,   support and sustain a good music program and your music leaders by helping with practical and technical   matters as well as larger issues of theological integration and the quality of the music used in the service   of the church. 2CR [Meets only for the first half of the semester]		

STH TA 808: Marsh Chapel Choir
	Audition required. Schedule includes Sunday worship in Marsh Chapel and several  major concerts.		

STH TA 810: Hymns and Their Music
	Study of the history of congregational song from biblical practice to the present  day. Emphasis will be  given to the development of theological, textual, and  musical patterns, with special attention to  incorporating both historic and  emerging materials in worship. Strongly recommended for all MSM  students;  valuable for MDiv and doctoral students with special interest in worship.		

STH TA 815: World Religions in Boston
	In an increasingly pluralistic society it is essential to have some understanding of the beliefs and   worship   patterns of other religions and to be able to engage in dialogue with them. This course utilizes  the    Pluralism Project at Harvard to explore new forms of interfaith engagement. Seven weekly lectures     introduce the issues surrounding interfaith work and a basic understanding of the tenets and practices   of   five major religions. Site visits (to Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Buddhist and Jewish worship services) offer   first-  hand experiences and the opportunity for discussion and interaction with religious leaders and lay     people. 2CR [Meets only for the first half of the semester].		

STH TA 820: The Church and the Arts
	Aims to facilitate understanding of sacred art for its intrinsic worth and to assess how it may be used to enhance worship in the future. It will deal systematically with the theology of architectural space, church furnishing, vestments, stained glass, and decorative work. Students will be taught to look, interpret, and use the technical vocabulary of art and architecture and will develop skills for making value judgments about quality and content of art. Includes field trips to area churches and to the Museum of Fine Arts.		

STH TA 826: Seminar in Music of the 20th Century
		Course not being offered in 2014-2015 School Year.		

STH TA 830: Passions & Requiems
	An examination of the legacy of music written for liturgical and non-liturgical  use, using longer text, tracing the origins, formulary, and development of the  texts (including discussion of the authors). Case studies will form the basis of  further inquiry. Cultural, social and historical context of the first  performance will be discussed, along with an examination of the theology behind  the text setting. There will be comparative analysis of other examples of the  same genre, discussion of post-Reformation changes in text and approach, and  national differences in style and technique.		

STH TC 529: Spiritual Autobiographies
	In the course, students will explore classic and contemporary spiritual autobiographies. These  autobiographies reveal the diverse paths of religious seekers, the crises and epiphanies that became focal  points of meaning and revelation. Students will learn about the practices of faith that sustained and  challenged religious people from Augustine to Teresa of Avila to Tolstoy. Through close, empathetic, and  critical examination of the texts, students will reflect on their own spiritual journeys and identities. They  also will engage first-hand in the crafting of spiritual autobiography, and students will have the  opportunity to work intensively in small groups throughout the writing and sharing process. Throughout  the course, students will explore potential uses of spiritual autobiography as pathways of discernment and  growth in congregational and retreat settings, small faith groups, spiritual formation and companionship.		

STH TC 715: Introduction to Preaching
	An introduction to the theology and practice of preaching within the context of  Christian ministry and  worship. Students develop skills necessary for  preparation, composition, delivery, and critique of sermons.  Required of all  M.Div. students in the Pastoral Ministry track.		

STH TC 723: United Methodist Polity
	Covers the polity, structure, procedures, and ritual of the United Methodist   Church along with the basic  structure of and ecclesial concepts contained within   its Book of Discipline. Designed to meet one of the  requirements for membership   in a UMC Annual Conference.		

STH TC 796: Theology of the Streets
	This clinic combines both an intellectual and an experiential appreciation of ministry on the streets of   Cambridge. Each week, students will spend ninety minutes in the classroom and two to three hours in   fieldwork as participants and observers in an outdoor church for chronically homeless men and women.    Field work placements will rotate among street outreach on Tuesday nights, Saturdays and Sunday,   pastoral visits to homeless shelters, pastoral visits to meals programs and, as opportunity permits, pastoral   visits to prisons, jails and hospitals.  For more information, please contact the instructor, Jedediah Mannis,   at jedmannis@charter.net.		

STH TC 801: Contextual Education I
	Supervised practice of ministry in a congregational setting or community agency  combined with    participation in a peer reflection-learning group focused on the integration of theology and practice. MDIV    CORE REQUIREMENT. Background check is required.		

STH TC 802: Contextual Education II
		Graduate Prerequisites: STH TC 801. Continues and presupposes STH TC 801 in the spring semester. MDIV   CORE REQUIREMENT. Background check is required. 		

STH TC 803: Contextual Education III
	Normally continues STH TC 802 (see course description for TC 801).  Can be taken for variable credit.		

STH TC 804: Field Education IV
	Normally continues STH TC 803.		

STH TC 807: UMC General Conference
	The quadrennial General Conference is the chief legislative body of the United Methodist Church. This  course provides students with the opportunity to examine the critical role of the General Conference in the  United Methodist tradition. In addition to examining the General Conference's impact upon the historical  and theological identity of United Methodism, the course explores specific doctrinal, polity, and social  issues that are on the agenda of the General Conference in the semester in which the course is offered. The  course allows students the option of receiving additional credit for attending part of the General  Conference sessions.		

STH TC 808: Sermon Studio
	This class will be conducted like a studio class in theatrical performance where students are encouraged to take risks, be creative, and get immediate and interactive feedback on their work.  While the sermon is not a performance piece, we deliver sermons to a culture that demands performance quality work from professional orators.  Therefore, as preachers, we must approach the sermon with diligence, earnestness, and willingness to rigorously practice the craft.  The Sermon Studio is a class designed to help students of homiletics further develop and practice the art form.  Each three hour class will begin with a teaching topic from the primary text, and then we will have four to five half-hour segments for students to workshop sermons and get immediate feedback on their work.  The goal of the class is to have students get up and preach as frequently as possible, so that they become more comfortable and adept with the art form.  The class will seek to create an environment that emphasizes creativity, regular practice, and feedback as the primary means of developing artful and effective sermons.  		

STH TC 810: The Pastoral Life
	This class is intended to help seminarians entering pastoral ministry develop effective strategies that will allow them to fully enjoy the richness and beauty of their vocation.  		

STH TC 811: Pastoral Leadership
	The aim of the course is to prepare the student, at the basic professional  level, in the primary forms of pastoral leadership.  On completing the course,  the student should have gained professional confidence and reflective competence  in these areas of pastoral leadership:  conversation and visitation; preaching  and teaching; stewardship and development; administration and lay preparation;  conflict resolution and systems analysis; evangelism and youth\children's  ministry.  		

STH TC 813: Spirituality and Ministry in Multicultural Contexts
	This course examines Christian spirituality as it is related to ministry in  multicultural contexts. Drawing upon different contexts in which church ministry  is engaged, the course explores how spirituality is situated and developed in  those contexts. The course also focuses on how to practice "contemplative  ministry" in congregational settings.		

STH TC 814: The Jazz of Preaching: How to Preach with Great Freedom and Joy
	An exploration of preaching preparation and performance in dialogue with the jazz  hallmarks of improvisation, call and response, swing, and other central elements  of  jazz. Special emphasis will be placed on cultivating preaching imagination,  creativity, and joy. Course includes in-class preaching.   		

STH TC 816: Homiletical Options and Homiletic Analysis
	This course is an advanced homiletics seminar that in alternate years either reviews contemporary    homiletic theory ("Homiletical Options") or explores practices of sermon analysis ("Homiletical Analysis").     Pre-requisite: TC715 ("Introduction to Preaching") or its equivalent.		

STH TC 817: Introduction to Christian Worship
	An introduction to the spirit and structure of Christian worship. Word,  sacraments, calendar, music, and  pastoral offices are analyzed and described in  terms of their relevance to congregational life, spirituality,  catechesis, and  mission.		

STH TC 819: The Sacraments: Rites and Theologies
	Contemporary study of the sacraments brings together ritual studies, liturgical  history, the history of dogma, and systematic reflection. This course examines the  baptismal and eucharistic rites of the Church, both past and present, along with  theological rationales of and commentaries on them offered by ecclesiastic writers  of the patristic, medieval, Reformation, and modern periods.		

STH TC 821: The Gospel and Empire
	This course explores the relationship between Christianity and empire both  historically and theologically. While the broader context for the course is the  mutual shaping of empire and Christianity as the Christian movement has spread  throughout the world, Cuba will provide a case study for reflecting on how this  shaping has taken place on that island in relation to particular imperial  influences.		

STH TC 823: Spiritual Guidance in the Christian Tradition
	Are you seeking a "word of life"? Do you hunger to know more about the wisdom of  Christian spiritual traditions? Do you feel called to grow in your ability to  guide others? In this course students will explore selected writings from the  Christian tradition -- both classic and contemporary. They will read the pithy  sayings of the early desert abbas and ammas, the gentle counsel of Francis de  Sales, the spiritual teaching of John Wesley and his mother Susanna, and the  insights of the Russian pilgrim who wanted to pray without ceasing. They will  analyze the various theological commitments reflected in these authors'  spiritual teachings, and place them in their historical contexts. Then they will  move to contemporary texts about the practice of spiritual guidance, addressing  concerns such as spiritual direction of women, group spiritual direction,  prayer, and cross-cultural spiritual guidance.		

STH TC 825: Prayer and Social Engagement
	The seminar will address the relationship between prayer and social engagement.  Prayer and social engagement often are separated entirely, or wedded  uncritically. In this course, students will seek to deepen their prayer lives  while thinking critically about the social situation. They will wrestle with the  multiple theological questions surrounding prayer and social engagement. Topics  will be approached using selected case studies from international contexts. By  delving into the cases, students will see different models for how prayer can  inspire a social vision, cultivate a social conscience, respond to social  crisis, ground people's dignity, and promote reconciliation. 		

STH TC 828: Women's Theologies and Ministry
	This course will examine the reality of women in ministry, critically evaluating  how women's identities and roles have been structured in Christian contexts. It  will also carefully analyze how these identities and roles can be re-evaluated  and how women's ministry can be envisioned in this modern ministerial context.  Drawing on different women's theological perspectives and identities, the course  will focus mainly on women and ministry in the areas of biblical studies,  worship, preaching, and pastoral care and counseling.		

STH TC 829: Spiritual Autobiographies
	In the course, students will explore classic and contemporary spiritual  autobiographies. These autobiographies reveal the diverse paths of religious  seekers, the crises and epiphanies that became focal points of meaning and  revelation. Students will learn about the practices of faith that sustained and  challenged religious people from Augustine to Teresa of Avila to Tolstoy.  Through close, empathetic, and critical examination of the texts, students will  reflect on their own spiritual journeys and identities. They also will engage  first-hand in the crafting of spiritual autobiography, and students will have  the opportunity to work intensively in small groups throughout the writing and  sharing process. Throughout the course, students will explore potential uses of  spiritual autobiography as pathways of discernment and growth in congregational  and retreat settings, small faith groups, spiritual formation and companionship.  		

STH TC 833: Sung Faith
	From the beginning, the Church has sung its faith. In this course the doctrine  of the Trinity is the focus of an examination of "lyrical theology."  Hymn texts  constitute the primary documents; secondary texts by writers from the patristic  period to the present guide reflection and analysis.  The goals of the course  are: (1) to increase the appreciation for hymn texts as theological statements;  (2) to gain a deeper knowledge of the mystery of the triunity of God; and (3) to  promote a greater awareness of the doctrine of the Trinity as crucial to the  faith of the Church and central its life.		

STH TC 835: Evangelism and Contemporary Cultures
	This course explores the practice of bearing faithful, visible, and embodied  witness to God's  commonwealth in contemporary contexts and cultures. The course  covers the biblical, historical, and  theological foundations of evangelism, its  practice within congregational life, and contextual strategies. 		

STH TC 836: Race, Gender, and Ethnicity in Church and Society
	This course examines the relation between race, gender, and ethnicity from the  perspective of different multicultural identities and theological  understandings, evaluating how religious structures have constructed these  relations and challenged these dynamics. Analyzing various church contexts and  social constructions, we will aim to re-evaluate diverse theoretical and  experimental discussions among different ethnic groups in a global context as  well as in the American context. This course introduces students to of the  multiple dynamics present between race, gender, and ethnicity in various church  contexts such as White/African American/Asian/Asian American/Hispanic/other  immigrant churches and multicultural congregations. It investigates how church  life and ministry interact with sociopolitical and cultural structures and how  these processes impact people's everyday lives. The course analyzes the issues  of race, gender/sex, body, age, and class in the North American context seeking  also to understand colonial and post-colonial structures within American society  and beyond. 		

STH TC 837: Vocation, Work and Faith
	Who am I called to become? What am I called to do? What are my gifts and where will they be recognized   and of service? These kinds of vocational questions are fundamental to our lives. The course seeks to  open  up reflection, study, and dialogue about vocation, work, and spirituality in religious traditions and  in our  own life experience. Work and vocation are often connected. Work too is a crucial religious  question in  contemporary society. Work exerts a powerful--and often unrecognized--influence on  human beings. It  can support life, develop talents, elicit creativity, and enable people to contribute to  the common good.  Work also can demean human beings, undermining their dignity, perpetuating  unjust structures,  overpowering values, and crowding out other important spheres of life. Labor issues  are important  concerns for faith communities and faith-based community organizations. This course explores vocation  and work as theological/spiritual issues, including implications for  ministry. We will explore themes such  as: work as spiritual practice or challenge; labor and justice  issues; discerning vocation; creativity;  Sabbath; "time poverty"; and work-life balance. The course  involves site visits, vocational mentoring,  seminar presentations, and individual research/ministry  projects. 		

STH TC 838: Church Renewal
	In every era, Christians must rethink what it means to be the church in light of  the Christian witness and given the unique challenges and opportunities of our  particular situation. This course explores (1) what it means to be the church as  an embodied witness to the reign of God in our present culture and (2) the  various strategies and resources upon which Christian leaders might draw in  guiding congregations through processes of formation, change, and  revitalization. 		

STH TC 839: Suffering and Healing
	This course will examine the understanding of human suffering in personal and communal space and     explore the possibilities of healing in church and ministry. Through a range of readings, films, case     studies, and a church or non-profit organization site visit, students will critically reflect on various     conditions of human suffering including sickness, joblessness, homelessness, racial prejudices,     immigration issues and others. The course will employ interdisciplinary study methods, from     pastoral/practical theology to cultural studies. Building from these experiences and reflections, students     will work to develop practical ministries that aim to restore and heal individuals and communities.		

STH TC 842: Urban Ministry Models for the 21st Century: Creative Ministry in Context
	This course will examine urban new church starts and congregational restarts that engage  in ministry in    their settings.  Participants will learn tools and methods for contextual analysis and explore models of    leadership for 21st century ministry. Most course sessions will occur at urban congregations throughout    New England.  One particular area of focus will be ways in which global migration has impacted ministry in    these settings.		

STH TC 844: Classics in Christian Spirituality
	This course serves as an introduction to the study of Christian spirituality through in-depth reading of   selected classics in Christian spirituality as well as secondary source scholarship in the discipline. We will   delve into texts by early monastics and visionary medieval mystics; look anew at Protestant hymns and   poetry; go deeper into Ignatian discernment; and engage the spiritualities of Latin American liberation   theologians and African American women. This interdisciplinary seminar opens up reflection on  spirituality  and theology; spirituality and history; spirituality, gender, race, and ethnicity; spirituality,  poetics, and  autobiography; spirituality and ministry; and spiritual practice. Students are encouraged to  integrate the  material with an eye toward their own spiritual lives and vocations. The course will integrate  music, art,  and poetry to offer a fuller engagement with spiritual classics.  		

STH TC 845: Parish Preaching
	The central, crucial role of preaching in a parish setting involves engagement   with other congregational ministries and with the needs and resources of the   larger community.  This course is intended as a second level, advanced preaching   course, with emphasis on the context of preaching.  The course offers multiple   opportunities to develop and preach sermons.  Attention is given both to regular   Sunday preaching and also to particular sermons for various occasions:  special   events, Stewardship Sunday, funerals and weddings, Advent and Lent, national   observances (Fourth of July, Mothers' Day, New Year's, Thanksgiving, other),   denominational requirements, and civic addresses.  The interactive engagement of   the preaching ministry with parish ministry as a whole is the focus of the   course. 		

STH TC 847: Faith and Film
	This course uses the medium of film as an avenue for reflection upon the meaning  and truth of the central doctrines of the Christian church as expressed in the  historic Apostle's Creed. The course uses a broad cross-section of film genres  to open up new and creative windows for understanding and communicating the  Christian faith in contemporary culture and also assists the student in thinking  critically about film from a Christian theological perspective.		

STH TC 849: Narrative Sermons
	In this course, students will learn approaches to preaching narratively. By the   end of the course, students will also begin to integrate their homiletical   practice with their own emerging narrative theology of preaching.		

STH TC 851: Preaching and Worship in the African-American Traditions
	Study of the preaching, prayer, and music in African-American churches. 		

STH TC 852: Spirituality and Leadership
	Changing times in church and society challenge our understandings about and  practices of leadership. This course will examine the nexus of leadership and  spirituality.  We will examine theories about leadership, both secular and  church-based, focus particularly on the systemic nature of leadership. We will  also consider the importance of the 'being' of the leader, not just the 'doing'.  The quality of a leader's life and work can be significantly enhanced by being  supported with spiritual practices. Those spiritual practices may involve the  leader as well as individuals and groups with whom the leader engages. Students  will be given opportunity to reflect on biblical models of leadership, to  explore a leadership in a contemporary setting, as well as to learn, experience,  and practice spiritual disciplines for leaders and those with whom they lead.		

STH TC 854: Leadership in Times of Change
	Although it sounds like an oxymoron, change is a constant, whether in the  context of the individual, the family, the local church, the university, the  nation, or the world. How a leader defines, understands and deals with change,  both personally and in the leadership setting, is important both for the leader  and those in the organization or group. Leadership for change may emerge from  anywhere in the group/organization. Exploring theories and practices from both  secular and church-based resources, students will seek to deal with these  questions such as: What is the nature of change? How does our understanding of  God shape our understanding of change? How does our understanding of change  shape our understanding of God? Are there healthy ways to lead in times of  transition and change? Are there leadership patterns and practices that are  counterproductive in times of transition and change? 		

STH TC 857: Spiritual Resources and Disciplines
	An introduction to Christian spiritual practices and traditions. The course explores topics such as prayer, lectio divina, discernment, spiritual guidance, justice, and hospitality, with attention to the importance of spiritual practice as the ground of ministry in diverse contexts. Students will develop their own Rule of Life as part of the work of the course.		

STH TC 861: Theologies of Church Music
	The Church, throughout its history, has sought to clarify its relationship to  culture. In particular, is the Church to accommodate its worship to culture or  avoid adoption of cultural forms? The relationship of culture and worship will  be explored in this course from the angle of the historical Church's use of  music. How have the Church's theologians defined the role of music in the  Church? What are the most appropriate musical forms for use in the Church? These  issues will be examined with an eye to discussing and evaluating contemporary  Christian musical expressions. 		

STH TC 862: The Liturgical Year
	The historical development of a Christian calendar of both weekly and annual cycles. Descriptions of related liturgical and catechetical customs and contemporary calendar revision.		

STH TC 863: Reading and Writing Rites of Passage
	An examination of historical, theological, and pastoral aspects of the occasional offices that address life's passages and crises:  birth, adolescence, Christian marriage, sickness and death, and Christian burial.  An ecumenical and international approach will be taken in studying both historic and contemporary rites.		

STH TC 867: Theology and Popular Culture
	This course places the Christian gospel into dialogue with a variety of  expressions of North American popular culture (film, television, art, music,  entertainment, sports, etc.) in an effort to understand the complex relationship  between the two. The course takes up at with this dialogue against the wider  background of the study of religion and popular culture and by exploring the  nature of self and transcendence, morality and the spiritual quest as those are  constructed and configured within popular culture.  The course asks to what  extent contemporary expressions of Christian worship, preaching, Ministry,  evangelism, and spirituality might better engage popular culture and to what  extent these expressions already reflected the values, patterns, and practices  of popular culture.		

STH TC 868: Worship in the Anglican and Wesleyan Traditions
	A study of the historical, theological, liturgical, and sociocultural influences  which have shaped the worship patterns of the major American denominations  claiming a Wesleyan heritage.		

STH TC 869: Prophetic Preaching, Pastoral Ministry, and Social Change
	This course is designed to help students wrestle with several central issues  around prophetic preaching in contemporary Christian churches: the relationships  of prophetic preaching to the gospel, to the Bible, to the social-political  context, and to pastoral ministry generally.  Since the course is designed to be  a seminar, students will be expected to wrestle with these issues not only in  class but also through a sermon and a public message.  By the end of the course,  students should be able to develop their own vision for prophetic preaching in a  way that integrates the above concerns by moving from a specific Biblical text  to a sermon as well as a public message in light of a situation.  Pre-requisite  TC715 Intro to Preaching or its equivalent.		

STH TC 871: Spiritual Foundations for Peace Building
	Through reading and reflection on biographies and autobiographies of national  and international peace-builders, students will look at how the cultural  contexts and spiritual practices of the peace-builder influenced their peace- building work.  The focus will be on peace-builders beginning in the 20th  century with Gandhi, King, Chavez, Day, Deming, and others. Students will also  explore their own contexts and how those contexts impact their perspectives on  both spiritual formation and confliction transformation.		

STH TC 872: Animals, Theology and Healing
	Explores various dimensions of divine/human/animal interactions, but with a focus upon healing  relationships. The course ranges across the areas of theology, spirituality, liturgy, pastoral care, history,  psychology, mind/body medicine (stress reduction), and public policy. While Christian theologies of  creation and stewardship/ecology are central, the approaches of other religions and their practices will  also be examined for purposes of comparison (and perhaps dialogue). 		

STH TC 878: Sabbath: Theory and Practice
	Team taught by a Jewish rabbi and a Christian practical theologian, this course  invites students to delve into Jewish and Christian traditions on Sabbath, an  important spiritual practice with many layers of theological meaning. We will  explore classic texts on Sabbath, including texts from the Bible, the Talmud,  and the Mishnah, as well as historical and contemporary Christian writing on the  Sabbath or the Lord's Day. Topics to include discussion of motifs of "maaseh  breisheet" (creation) and "yetziat mitzrayim" (exodus), blessing and  sanctifying, cessation of work, preparation for Sabbath, Sabbath consciousness,  and imitatio dei. We also will explore Christian theologies of the Lord's Day,  including the meaning of Sabbath in light of the life, death, and resurrection  of Christ. This is a course in spirituality and practical theology. We will be  studying and engaging in the practice of Sabbath keeping as we closely read  classic and contemporary texts, and in this way exploring what the practice of  Sabbath embodies and enacts theologically. We also will focus attention on  questions of Sabbath keeping and spiritual formation, relationships between  Sabbath keeping and pastoral excellence, and implications of Sabbath for social  justice. 		

STH TC 879: Preaching Apocalyptic Texts
	This seminar helps students gain competence in exegetical and homiletical approaches that aid preaching  apocalyptic texts in the New Testament (e.g., Revelation). The course does so by focusing on the literary  matrix of first-century apocalyptic literature and and how that literature can aid students in developing in- class sermons that reflect its unique rhetoric and form.		

STH TC 890: New Church Development
	The planting and birthing of new congregations requires careful planning, innovative leadership, organizational savvy, a strong spiritual base, and endless creativity.  This course is a study in the theology and practice of starting new congregations and covers such topics as contextual worship, organizational development, finance and facilities, exegeting a community, and creative community outreach.  Coursework includes specific congregational development research projects.		

STH TC 897: Our Lady of Guadalupe as Resource for El Pueblo
	This course will consider the contextual dynamics of power and agency that contributed to the  establishment of Our Lady of Guadalupe as a powerful symbol for diverse communities across  chronological and geographical boundaries.  Students will explore narratives, rituals, faith practices, and  visit historical sites in Mexico. Facilitated through a protestant feminist /Mujerista perspective, this course  will be a travel seminar to Mexico and run in a seminar style with the instructor as facilitator for critical  engagement of readings, sharing of experiences, and contextual deconstruction/construction of methods,  theories and 'official" historical understandings. 		

STH TC 909: Spiritual Autobiographies
	Participants in this course will read selected spiritual autobiographies in order to gain an understanding of the varieties of religious experience and the interrelationship between spirituality, theology, and historical and cultural context. We will examine the nature of religious experience and the difficulties in translating this experience into language. Moreover, we will explore the important issue of how spirituality relates to the institutional churches, and the various shapes spirituality takes outside these institutions. Through close, empathetic, and critical examination of the texts, participants also will reflect on their own spiritual journeys and spiritual identities. They will prepare written analyses of course texts and, by the end of the course, will write a portion of their own spiritual autobiography. 		

STH TC 912: Classics in Christian Spirituality
	This course serves as an introduction to the study of Christian spirituality through in-depth reading of   selected classics in Christian spirituality as well as secondary source scholarship in the discipline. We will   delve into texts by early monastics and visionary medieval mystics; look anew at Protestant hymns and   poetry; go deeper into Ignatian discernment; and engage the spiritualities of Latin American liberation   theologians and African American women. This interdisciplinary seminar opens up reflection on  spirituality  and theology; spirituality and history; spirituality, gender, race, and ethnicity; spirituality,  poetics, and  autobiography; spirituality and ministry; and spiritual practice. Students are encouraged to  integrate the  material with an eye toward their own spiritual lives and vocations. The course will integrate  music, art,  and poetry to offer a fuller engagement with spiritual classics.  		

STH TC 919: The Sacraments: Rites and Theologies
	Contemporary study of the sacraments brings together ritual studies, liturgical history, the history of dogma, and systematic reflection. This course examines the baptismal and eucharistic rites of the Church, both past and present, along with theological rationales of and commentaries on them offered by ecclesiastic writers of the patristic, medieval, Reformation, and modern periods. 		

STH TC 937: Vocation, Work, and Faith
	Who am I called to become? What am I called to do? What are my gifts and where will they be recognized  and of service? These kinds of vocational questions are fundamental to our lives. The course seeks to open  up reflection, study, and dialogue about vocation, work, and spirituality in religious traditions and in our  own life experience. Work and vocation are often connected. Work too is a crucial religious question in  contemporary society. Work exerts a powerful--and often unrecognized--influence on human beings. It  can support life, develop talents, elicit creativity, and enable people to contribute to the common good.  Work also can demean human beings, undermining their dignity, perpetuating unjust structures,  overpowering values, and crowding out other important spheres of life. Labor issues are important  concerns for faith communities and faith-based community organizations. This course explores vocation  and work as theological/spiritual issues, including implications for ministry. We will explore themes such  as: work as spiritual practice or challenge; labor and justice issues; discerning vocation; creativity; Sabbath;  "time poverty"; and work-life balance. The course involves site visits, vocational mentoring, seminar  presentations, and individual research/ministry projects. 		

STH TC 954: Proseminar in Liturgical Bibliography
	Selected classics and recent books in liturgical studies will be read in order to examine different methodologies employed in the field. 		

STH TC 960: Theologies of Preaching
	This doctoral seminar course helps students become familiar with attempts across multiple traditions to  understand what preaching is theologically.  It aims to equip them to engage the theological task  constructively as homiletical theologians in their own right.  		

STH TE 805: Growing in Faith: Ministries with Children, Youth, and Young Adults
	What can we learn from the growing faith of children? And how can the church foster a Christian way of life during the hopes and challenges of adolescence and young adulthood?  This is a practical, interactive course designed to equip students to lead educational initiatives with young people in diverse contexts.  After discussing biblical, historical and developmental perspectives on the spiritual lives of young people, we will explore a broad range of educational strategies, from Godly Play to confirmation classes, mission trips, vocational discernment and the emerging church.  Assignments will include observation in local congregations, curriculum analysis, interviews with practitioners, and a final integrative project. 		

STH TE 808: Creative Pedagogy
	This course examines the transformative potential of creative pedagogy, in which  individuals and communities learn through the free play of possibilities that  deepen faith.  By engaging practical, historical, theological approaches,  students learn to consider the tensions, risks and opportunities of creative  pedagogy, while acquiring skills to teach and learn through the body, the  imagination, and the senses.		

STH TE 811: Doing Theology Aesthetically
	In this course learners explore the aesthetic dimensions of meaning-making  through visual art and  aesthetic practices.  Discussion of texts, experiences of  making art, and engagement in aesthetic practices  shed light on the potential  strengths and limitations of using aesthetic experience as an effective teaching   approach in religious education.		

STH TE 812: Introduction to Christian Education: Person, Community, and Religious Education
	This course is a practical introduction to ministries of learning and teaching  in Christian communities. It  will explore the dynamics of individual and  communal faith formation in diverse contexts, drawing on a  range of   perspectives from theology and the philosophy of education. Students will  analyze the education  offerings of religious communities, evaluate educational  resources, practice effective teaching approaches,  and design educational  strategies appropriate to their community of faith. 		

STH TE 819: REligious Education for Social Transformation
	ÃÂ&nbsp; This course explores a religious pedagogy that enables communities of faith to integrate the personal formation of their members with their communal public actions for social transformation. Both the history and the current practices of Christian religious education reveal a division between two educational dimensions: the formation of "self" and the transformation of society. Rather than separate tasks, participants are invited to understand these as one integrated task. The pedagogy of practicing theology will be introduced to show how it enables people in communities of faith to develop their personhoods, as they participate in the communities' actions for social transformation.   		

STH TE 821: Adult Religious Education
	This seminar explores some foundational theories that have shaped the field of adult religious education,  providing encounters through reading, discussion, and practice. Learners will deepen their understanding  of key challenges posed by postmodernity as positivism, meta-narratives, and neo-liberalism undergo  deconstruction. In addition, learners will test and refine theoretical approaches and their implications by  facilitating, experiencing, and evaluating practices. Through the semester, the instructor will illustrate how  to read a current research theme through the course literature and invite learners to do the same. The  course is intended to provide a rich grounding for further research.		

STH TE 822: Spirituality and Liberative Pedagogy
	The purpose of this course is to draw from the depths of Christian spirituality and liberative pedagogy to discover insights, questions, and directions for future educational practice.  The course takes seriously both Christian spirituality and liberative pedagogy in their own rights, exploring practices and pedagogies in their many forms, and pays attention to the creative overlap between the two.  The underlying hope is that the class will discover and construct educational practices that deepen spiritual life and contribute significantly to liberation in this world. 		

STH TE 845: Religion and Education
	The relationship of government with schools and colleges based upon religious convictions and the efforts of educators to shape and maintain a distinctive character in such institutions. Issues of educational freedom and the rights of parents in historical and comparative international perspective.		

STH TE 921: Adult Religious Education
	This seminar explores some foundational theories that have shaped the field of adult religious education,  providing encounters through reading, discussion, and practice. Learners will deepen their understanding  of key challenges posed by postmodernity as positivism, meta-narratives, and neo-liberalism undergo  deconstruction. In addition, learners will test and refine theoretical approaches and their implications by  facilitating, experiencing, and evaluating practices. Through the semester, the instructor will illustrate how  to read a current research theme through the course literature and invite learners to do the same. The  course is intended to provide a rich grounding for further research.		

STH TF 701: Introduction to Christian Traditions
	This first course of a two-course sequence provides a basic academic orientation to the Christian  movement through a survey of its history from antiquity through the Protestant Reformation. Lectures and  readings on the history of Christianity will be complemented by parallel lectures and readings on great  theologians of those times.  Emphasis is placed on increasing students' self-consciousness of their own  theological and religious identity, Christian or otherwise, relative to the first sixteen centuries of Christian  history. MDIV and MTS core requirement.		

STH TF 702: Christianity Engaging Modernity
	Continuation of TF 701. 		

STH TF 703: Practicing Faith
	Situated in the first semester of the MDiv program, the Practicing Faith courses aim: 1) to increase the   student's self-awareness of lived faith in dialogue with cultural and religious traditions and with attention   to formative spiritual and religious texts and practices; 2) to develop the student's ability to reflect critically   about practicing faith. MDiv Requirement (Optional for M.T.S.)   A1 (Choi)  This section will explore  personal and communal practices of faith through an analysis of leadership in the  context of culture,  religious traditions, and religious communities; and through learning how power,  authority and leadership  interact and are exercised in multicultural society.   B1 (Goto) Addressing practices at the personal,  congregational, and social levels, we will investigate the role of the  physical body in welcoming and  embracing God's kingdom, and our accent will be on enacting and  experiencing faith.    C1 (Hassinger)  This section explores leadership in the context of congregations and other organizations, grounded in   spiritual life practices as individuals and groups.  D1 (Schlauch) This section examines the incoherence of  faith as it shows itself the various ways we practice multiple  faiths, often professing a faith that is in  conflict with the faith we actually live. Practicing an increasingly  coherent faith involves examining,  critically reflecting upon, and consequently revising the varieties of  faiths each of us is practicing. 		

STH TF 704: Practicing Faith II
	Continuation of TF703.  		

STH TF 801: MTS Contextual Education Project
	This is a 4 credit Contextual Action and Reflection (CAR) Group specially designed for MTS students.  All  MTS students fulfill a contextual education requirement that incorporates 1) active as well as reflective  learning; 2) out-of-classroom as well as classroom learning; and 3) self-reflective learning in which  students become aware of their position in, and effect on, the contexts in which theological education and  religious leadership are performed and enacted. While this may be fulfilled through a standard contextual  education internship or an STH course-related travel seminar, this course affords students the opportunity  to design a customized, one-semester project that facilitates the integration of theory and practice as well  as vocational discernment and leadership development in religion and theology. Guidelines for developing  the project are available on the Contextual Education website at STH. Please contact the Contextual  education office for more information about the process for designing the project before you register for  this class.		

STH TF 805: Introduction to Theological Writing
	Because theology frequently makes use of multiple modes of discourse, rhetoric, and communication the   goal of this class will be to exercise maximal control of written expression, primarily through the practice   of essay writing. With close attention to grammar, syntax, diction, rhetoric and argument, students will   work to develop both their prose style and their approach to theological writing. Students enrolled in this   course will study, discuss, and evaluate a wide range of prose styles peculiar to theological discourse. The   course will also include three writing seminars by Professor Kathe Pfisterer Darr.		

STH TF 808: Travel Seminar: Jazz in the City
	STH TF 808 N1:  "Jazz in the City"  Using New York City as a laboratory, this course focuses on collaborative   strategies for urban ministries, urban congregational development, and practical, theoretical, and   theological methods for thinking about the urban condition and the church's response to it and   engagement with it.  Section R1 has been cancelled for Summer/Fall 2014		

STH TF 810: Global and Community Engagement Capstone
	MDiv students on the Global and Community Engagement track design a customized  practicum or seminar   with the help of their advisor that serves as an integrative  capstone course and culmination of their degree   program.  		

STH TF 811: Church and the Arts Capstone
	MDiv students on the Church and the Arts track design a customized practicum or  seminar with the help of their advisor that serves as an integrative capstone  course and the culmination of their degree program.  		

STH TF 820: Dual Degree CAR Group (MTS/SSW)
	This is a 1 credit Contextual Action and Reflection (CAR) Group specially designed for MTS/SSW Dual  Degree Students.  All MTS students fulfill a contextual education requirement that incorporates 1) active as  well as reflective learning; 2) out-of-classroom as well as classroom learning; and 3) self-reflective  learning in which students become aware of their position in, and effect on, the contexts in which  theological education and religious leadership are performed and enacted.  This course facilitates the  integration of theory and practice as well as vocational discernment and leadership development in religion  and theology. Dual degree MTS students take this CAR group course alongside their SSW required  internship. Please contact the office of Contextual Education form more information before you register for  this course.		

STH TF 821: Contextual Education I (Dual Degree)
	Integration of Theology and Practice (ITP) reflection groups for STH-SSW dual degree students in their   advanced placements. Offered fall semester. 1 credit. MDIV CORE REQUIREMENT.		

STH TF 822: Contextual Education II (Dual Degree)
	Continues and presupposes STH TF821 for STH-SSW dual degree students. Offered spring semester. 1   credit. MDIV CORE REQUIREMENT.		

STH TF 901: Doctoral Colloquium 1
	All first-year ThD and PhD students at STH are required to take this two-semester doctoral colloquia   associated with the Doctoral Research and Teaching Internship Program (DTRIP). The colloquia focus on (1)   research methods, (2) teacher training, and (3) professional identity.		

STH TF 902: Doctoral Colloquium 2
	The continuation of TF901.		

STH TH 569: Rel Hist Boston
	The Greater Boston area contains one of the richest historical legacies in the United States. This course examines distinctive aspects of that historical legacy, by focusing upon the religious history of Boston. The course will include selected visits to specific Boston area historical sites. For undergraduate students only. 		

STH TH 802: Christianity Beyond Early Modern Europe
	The course is dedicated to an in depth study of the reach of Christianity in the early modern period (c.    1450-c.1650). Our narrative follows the path of early modern Catholicism from fifteenth-century Europe,    through the ascent of the Portuguese and Spanish seaborne empires, and examines the role of the    missionary religious orders in the processes of Christianization and inculturation. (Requires TF 701/702 or   equivalent)		

STH TH 812: The Church in Late Antiquity
	The development of the Christian Church, its institutions, theology, and social  and political roles, from  Constantine to Charlemagne, in the context of the  transformations of late antique culture and society, East  and West.  COUNTS AS A  MDIV CHURCH HISTORY II CORE REQUIREMENT. (Requires TF 701 or equivalent)		

STH TH 817: Varieties of Ancient Christianity
	Surveys the many different and often competing forms of Christianity that arose  and flourished in the  second to the seventh century, from the "apostolic period"  to the Arab conquest in the Middle East.   It is  highly recommended that students  have taken at least one prior course in biblical or New Testament  literature.		

STH TH 820: History of Western Christian Spirituality
	An introduction to the historical study of Western Christian spiritual  practices. The course exposes    students to the historical-critical study of  spiritual practices through careful examination of selected    narratives of  Western Christian spirituality, primary texts, and participatory observation.  Participants will    learn to analyze spiritual practices--such as reading,  fasting, and prayer--by the twofold process of    "abstracting/isolating" practices  and "reading/interpreting" them in their historical context. While    emphasis will  be placed on the synchronic interpretation of practices, due attention will also  be given to    their development over time. Readings will include selected articles  representative of current methodology    in the field. Participants will gain a  better understanding of continuity and change of spiritual practices in    Western  Christian traditions. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TH 821: History and Doctrine of United Methodism
	An exploration of Methodist origins, the Wesleys, the rise of Methodism in England, and the distinctive  doctrines of Wesleyan theology. There is a particular focus on the development of the various United  Methodist traditions in America and their impact on society. The course is designed to meet one of the  requirements for membership in a UMC Annual Conference. 		

STH TH 823: Modern Christian Biography
	This course focuses on the period ca. 1600-1899 and examines Christianity of the Modern Period through the lives of representative personalities from Europe and North America. Their lives provide the focus for an examination of the broader artistic, social, economic, and political trends of the time. 		

STH TH 825: The Medieval Church
	Survey of social, personal, institutional, and theological aspects of reform and renewal in the late medieval       and early modern periods, including Nominalism, Conciliarism, the papacy, Luther, the German and Swiss       Reformations, Anabaptism and radical reformers, Calvin, the French Reformation, the English Reformation,       Catholic Reform, and the Council of Trent. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TH 826: The Reformations
	Survey of social, personal, institutional, and theological aspects of reform and renewal in the late medieval   and early modern periods, including Nominalism, Conciliarism, the papacy, Luther, the German and Swiss   Reformations, Anabaptism and radical reformers, Calvin, the French Reformation, the English Reformation,   Catholic Reform, Ignatius and Theresa, and the Council of Trent. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TH 827: American Church History
	The development of American Christianity as a social, intellectual, institutional, and cultural movement.   The course includes visits to churches in Boston. COUNTS AS A MDIV CHURCH HISTORY II CORE   REQUIREMENT. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TH 832: Modern Church History
	This Church History II period survey (ca. 1600-1865) examines Christianity in light of social, economic, and political trends in the geographic regions of Europe, North America, and Latin America. COUNTS AS A MDIV CHURCH HISTORY II CORE REQUIREMENT.		

STH TH 847: Global Christianity
	Overview of trends and issues in world Christianity today, with lectures by specialists who contributed to  the Atlas of Global Christianity, and speakers from the Boston 2010 conference in November. Sponsored by  the BTI. COUNTS AS A MDIV CHURCH HISTORY II CORE REQUIREMENT.		

STH TH 848: World Christianity
	Historical development of world Christianity. Emphasis on social, cultural,   spiritual, and political issues in  African, Asian and Latin American Christianity   in the nineteenth through twenty-first centuries. (Requires  TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TH 854: Christianity in Colonial Latin America: BartolomÃ© de las Casas
	A study of the life and theology of the Spanish Dominican missionary Fray Bartolome de las Casas    (1474/84-1566), the "Apostle of the Indies." The universal stature of Las Casas is only becoming clearer as    we celebrate the five-hundredth anniversary of his "first conversion" of 1514. In that year, Las Casas    rejected the system of the encomiendas and began a lifelong journey in defense of the rights of the    indigenous people of the Americas. Participants will be introduced to the historical context of his life and    writings. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TH 855: Women and American Religion
	This course investigates the contribution of women in American religious history. Tracing women's  participation in American religion from the colonial settlement to the present, the course analyzes ways  that women's leadership has shaped the religious and cultural development of the United States. The class  examines the leadership models developed by women of diverse racial, ethnic, and class backgrounds,  investigating how the history of women in American religion relates to contemporary models of  leadership  in 21st-century North American church and society.  		

STH TH 869: Religious History of Boston
	The Greater Boston area contains one of the richest historical legacies in the United States. This course  examines distinctive aspects of that historical legacy, by focusing upon the religious history of Boston. The  course will include selected visits to specific Boston area historical sites.		

STH TH 870: Calvin and the Reformed Tradition
	On this eve of the 500th anniversary of John Calvin's birth, we will accomplish  two things in this course.  (1) We will read from Calvin in translation from his  Institutes, treatises, polemical writings, and letters, and (2)  we will   analyze contemporary historical and theological writings on him and his era.   Students will be able to read and write on any subject within the Reformed  tradition that interests them from the 16th century to contemporary topics in  the present such as Presbyterianism, the United Church of Christ, Unitarianism,   Puritanism (in England and New England),the Great Awakening, and the impact of  the Reformed tradition on the worldwide Anglican churches and their  denominational offshoots, such as Methodism.		

STH TH 876: Martin Luther King, Jr.: Leadership in Context
	This interdisciplinary course will review the life and ministry of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., as well as other leaders of the civil right movement in the United States.  The course will investigate how historical contexts of Rev. Dr. Martin King, are related to pastroal traditions and prophetic ministry of community and church through correlated study.  The emphasis on the role of a cohort of religious and community leaders who worked with King will be explored.  Our examination of prophetic ministry during the Civil Rights era, will be oriented to issues of race, gender, class and social justice.  		

STH TH 902: Christianity Beyond Early Modern Europe
	The course is dedicated to an in depth study of the reach of Christianity in the early modern period (c.  1450-c.1650). Our narrative follows the path of early modern Catholicism from fifteenth-century Europe,  through the ascent of the Portuguese and Spanish seaborne empires, and examines the role of the  missionary religious orders in the processes of Christianization and inculturation.		

STH TH 910: History of Christian Mission
	A seminar in the history of Christian missions, from the early church to the present. Issues of historiography, method, and the emergence of non-western church history. Required course for doctoral students in mission studies.		

STH TH 920: History of American Theological Liberalism
	American Theological Liberalism is a doctoral-level seminar that provides an overview into the historical     and theological development of liberal theology in the United States. Through reading a variety of primary     and secondary sources, the course is designed to provide students an historical and theological overview     into the development of liberalism and assess the ongoing significance of theological liberalism in church     and society today. 		

STH TH 924: Women in the Reformation
	Examination of the participation of women in the reformations of the sixteenth century and the  effect of  theological and ecclesiastical changes on women and gender roles in early modern society. Topics include  marriage, childbirth, household management, education, authorship, exercise of power, and  cloistered life  amid the different confessional movements of the early modern period.		

STH TH 925: The Bible in the Reformation
	Examination of the role of the Bible in the reformations of the sixteenth century, including the development  and divergence of Reformation hermeneutics in late medieval and Renaissance context.  Special  attention will be given to the vernacular translation and popular presentation of the Bible in the sixteenth  century press and pulpit. 		

STH TH 927: Early Modern Piety
	TBA		

STH TH 930: History of Missiology
	Seminar on the classic Protestant mission theorists of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.		

STH TH 971: Seminar: Luther and the Radical Reformers
	Historical-social contexts, theologies, and effects of the history of the church from the Reformation to the present. 		

STH TJ 876: Church and Theology in the Contemporary World
	Church and Theology in the Contemporary World is an advanced research seminar in practical theology. The course enables students to design and carry out a research project in practical theology under the guidance of the instructor and with constructive feedback from fellow students. Assignments are designed to help students to articulate a clear, significant, and manageable research question; to design a practical theological approach to the question; to develop relevant bibliographies and other research sources; and, ultimately, to complete a final project in practical theology. Through this work and additional readings, including careful reading of and theological reflection on daily newspapers, we will together identify and address a range of issues facing the church in diverse cultures and contexts. Students gain skills in identifying practical theological questions and interpreting contexts; critically incorporating social scientific research in a theological project; making normative judgments; and thinking through strategic practical theological responses to guide faithful Christian practice. The course is a required core course for all doctoral students majoring in Practical Theology. 		

STH TJ 910: Proseminar in Practical Theology
	This doctoral seminar for practical theology majors introduces the primary changes that are under way in  practical theology as a discipline, reviews the methodologies upon which these changes are based, and  examines the implications of these changes. 		

STH TJ 940: Ecclesiology
	This course asks the question, "What is the church?" in dialogue with Christian  theological figures and schools representing Roman Catholic, Protestant, and  Orthodox Christian traditions. While one of the aims of this course is that  students be conversant with those voices, it ultimately aims at the student's  ability to articulate the ecclesiology of his or her own community and to bring  that to bear on the contemporary situation and particular problems of Christian  practice in church and society. 		

STH TJ 976: Advanced Research in Practical Theology
	In this advanced research seminar, students will explore a range of practical theology research to map the field. They will analyze the purposes, practices, and significance of this research for the field of practical theology and for the larger human community. Students will have opportunities to develop expertise with selected research tools; develop a significant research question of high personal interest; and conduct a research project that contributes to the literature and some part of the human or ecological community.		

STH TM 801: Christian Mission in a Religiously Plural World
	This course is focused on constructing a theology of mission that is appropriate, adequate, and relevant   for the 21st century's religious plurality.  The aim of the course is to enable students to 1) recall a quick   critical survey of the history of Christian mission, 2) grapple with the varied biblical understandings of   mission, and 3) begin to frame and articulate a theology of mission that addresses the challenges posed by   the religiously plural world		

STH TM 808: Three Missionary Faiths (Buddhism, Christianity, Islam) and Their Importance for Global Development
	The terms "missionary" and "development" often prompt images of Western Christians working away from home.  Much has been written about European colonial era missionaries and Western-led interventions around the world. But Christianity is not the only missionary world religion nor do modern development efforts fall within the sole purview of Western powers.  This course will examine the missionary nature of Buddhism, Christianity, and Islam and consider the ways in which all three faiths think about engagement with the world in an era of climate change, resource wars, and global economic inequity.  Using an inter-disciplinary approach that examines religious adherents' worldviews the course will concentrate on how the thinking patterns of followers of these three faith traditions translate into actions.  We will also reflect on the ways in which the modern development enterprise itself exhibits missionary characteristics.  Particular attention will go towards contexts in which interactions among the religious traditions and secular development interventions are taking place.  Guest speakers, site visits, and multimedia presentations will complement reading assignments and classroom discussions.		

STH TM 815: Christian Mission
	Exploration of biblical, historical, theological, political, and cultural  perspectives on the world mission of the church. This course is a requirement for  United Methodist MDiv students pursuing ordination in the United Methodist  Church.   		

STH TM 853: NGOs & FBOs
	Explores theoretical and practical issues related to cross-cultural non-governmental and faith-based  service work. 		

STH TM 856: Women in Mission and World Christianity
	History of Christian women in diakonia and mission outreach, including gender  issues in mission and non- western Christianity today.		

STH TM 857: Mission and Development
	An inter-disciplinary exploration of Christian mission and development studies in light of 21st century  challenges. Includes policy development.		

STH TM 858: Creating Resilience Amidst Resource Scarcity
	Since the mid-1980s, humans have been consuming more of earth's resources than  the planet can  replenish; the United States alone uses one quarter of the  world's energy. This situation, known as  "overshoot," has largely arisen from  hyper-development. If nothing is done, in several decades there will  be vast  species extinction, food and fuel shortages, and social unrest. Today's young  children could also  expect to grow old in a catastrophically degraded world.  Many analysts say a cultural and spiritual  awakening, including a major rethink  of humanity's mission and purpose, is needed to alter this future  scenario. So  the purpose of this course is to prepare students who can help bring about such  an  awakening. We will engage Christian theological viewpoints with those of  concerned economists,  philosophers, and organizational behaviorists. And we will  experiment with practical applications of key  concepts necessary to positive  change. 		

STH TM 859: The Future of Ecumenism
	This course focuses on "The Future of Ecumenism and the Transformation of World Christianity in the    21stCentury: Tracking the WCC General Assembly Theme; 'God of Life, lead us to Justice and Peace.'" As    such, it juxtaposes the interests of the ecumenical movement even as it verges with evangelical and    interfaith interests together with the Just Peace initiatives as defined at the International Ecumenical Peace    Convocation in Jamaica (2011). This course is also a part of the World Council of Churches' Global    Ecumenical Theological Institute (GETI) as facilitated internationally and at Busan, Republic of Korea,    location of the 10th General Assembly of the WCC. Participants in this course will have immediate or digital    connection with this assembly. 		

STH TM 909: Mission and Outreach: Foundations for Transformation
	Online Course: This course surveys the biblical, historical, theological, and contextual foundations of  transformational Christian mission, and introduces contemporary missional issues and practices.   Participants will analyze the mission potential of their ministry site and  community. The final project of the  course is the development of a leadership plan for mission and outreach.		

STH TM 910: History of Christian Mission
	A seminar in the history of Christian missions, from the early church to the present. Issues of  historiography, method, and the emergence of non-western church history. Required course for doctoral  students in mission studies.		

STH TM 930: History of Missiology
	Seminar on the classic Protestant mission theorists of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.  Required for doctoral students in mission studies.		

STH TM 931: Readings in Contemporary Missiology
	Readings and discussions of important works in missiology from the 1960's to the  present. This course  begins where TM 930 ends. Required for doctoral students in  mission studies		

STH TM 935: Global Development & Faith
	The academic study of development often overlaps with the practical application of mission and outreach  activities (Churches may participate in efforts to reduce malaria mortality, for example.). Along the way,  though, keen theological analysis and critical cultural perspectives may get lost, resulting in  misunderstandings and missed opportunities. This course aims to equip reflective practitioners with  background and insights they will need to effect more holistic social transformation. 		

STH TM 959: The Future of Ecumenism and the Transformation of World
	This course focuses on "The Future of Ecumenism and the Transformation of World Christianity in the      21stCentury: Tracking the WCC General Assembly Theme; 'God of Life, lead us to Justice and Peace.'" As      such, it juxtaposes the interests of the ecumenical movement even as it verges with evangelical and      interfaith interests together with the Just Peace initiatives as defined at the International Ecumenical Peace      Convocation in Jamaica (2011). This course is also a part of the World Council of Churches' Global      Ecumenical Theological Institute (GETI) as facilitated internationally and at Busan, Republic of Korea,      location of the 10th General Assembly of the WCC. Participants in this course will have immediate or digital      connection with this assembly. 		

STH TN 721: New Testament Introduction
	Content of the New Testament writing in its historical setting and special  attention to its relevance today.  This course is a prerequisite for all New  Testament II courses. MDIV & MTS CORE REQUIREMENT.		

STH TN 723: New Testament Greek I
	Introduction to the grammar and vocabulary of the Greek New Testament. For students with no training in  Greek. (Credit for STH TN 723 is only given after successful completion of STH TN 724.)		

STH TN 724: New Testament Greek II
		Continues and presupposes STH TN 723.		

STH TN 803: Jesus in the Gospels
	A theological and exegetical study; attention to literary and religio-historical problems. (Requires TN 721  or equivalent)		

STH TN 804: The Christian Bible: a History
	This course considers the history of the biblical canon, the Bible as an object or artifact, and shifting views   of biblical authority over time. (Requires TN 721 or equivalent)		

STH TN 805: Pauline Studies
	Paul's life, letters, and thoughts are considered historically and in their bearing upon Christian theology.  (Requires TN 721 or equivalent)		

STH TN 806: The Gospel of John
	The purpose of this study of the Fourth Gospel is to acquaint the student with  this work from the later   New Testament period in a way that provides  understanding of and the capacity for criticism of the text   involved (in  addition to some non-canonical Johannine literature, e.g., the Gnostic  Apocryphon of John).   Appreciation for both the unity and the diversity within  the Johannine literature should increase during this   study.  (Requires TN 721 or equivalent)		

STH TN 808: From Jesus to Christ: The Origins of Christianity
	Places Jesus of Nazareth in his contemporary religious and social context of Second Temple Judaism; and   accounts for the origins and growth of Christian life, belief, and spirituality up to the second century, as   reflected in the writings of that period. (Requires TN 721 or equivalent)		

STH TN 810: The Social Setting of Early Christianity
	The focus of the course will be the economy, society, and culture of the Greco-Roman world in which the  first Christians lived. The purpose of the course is to introduce the student to the social world that  produced the New Testament and other early Christian literature, including martyrdoms and apologies. We  will read primary and secondary sources on Roman history (early imperial period), ancient Judaism (from  Alexander the Great to the revolt by the messianic figure Bar Kochba), Greco-Roman religions (with focus  on the "pagan spirituality" of the ancient mystery religions), and the reaction by Roman magistrates and  pagan intellectuals to the new Christian movement. Such context is essential for reconstructing the life,  religion, society, and culture of the ancient Christians. (Requires TN 721 or equivalent)		

STH TN 813: Letter to the Romans
	Analysis of Paul's most systemic letter with special attention to the themes of election, justification by faith, ethics, and new Israel. Romans' historical impact on Luther, Wesley, Barth, and Bultmann.		

STH TN 815: Jesus and Paul on Poverty and Economic Issues
	We live in a time of great wealth and great poverty. We, the rich and the poor, often coexist in close    proximity, as neighbors and strangers, folk passing each other, sometimes unseen, in grocery stores  and   gas stations, people who interact or, more often, live in segregated silences within church and  society. At   the global level, too, the pattern of passing and unseeing exchange recurs in engagements  (whether   economic, political, or cultural) among nations of great wealth and the world's poor. This class  engages   New Testament texts and early Christian communities' own struggles with poverty, status, and  class   differences as a springboard for deep discussions of the moral life around issues of poverty and  economic   justice. (Requires TN 721 or equivalent)		

STH TN 816: Greek Reading I
	This course builds on Greek language skills by engaging in close readings and translations of New  Testament and other Greek literature.		

STH TN 817: Greek Reading II
	This course builds on Greek language skills by engaging in close readings and translations of New  Testament and other Greek literature.		

STH TN 820: The Gospel of Mark
	English exegesis of the gospel according to Mark. (Requires TN 721 or equivalent)		

STH TN 826: The Corinthian Correspondence
	A theological and exegetical study; attention to literary and religio-historical problems.		

STH TN 827: Gender in Early Christianity
	We will compare and contrast modern American and early Christian constructions of gender, historically,   socioculturally, and theologically, using the early Christian formulations within their Greco-Roman and   Jewish contexts as a springboard for group discussion and analysis. In the first third of the course, we ask   how, in comparison to our own, first century C.E. Jews, Greeks, and Romans seem to have constructed and   enacted their gender identities. In the latter two thirds of the course, we analyze how these gender   categories impacted early Christianity and how, in turn, adherents shaped them in their own identity   formation and theological explorations. Primary sources include Greco-Roman, Second-Temple Jewish,   New Testament, and other early Christian texts. (Requires TN 721 or equivalent)		

STH TN 833: Archaeology and Religion in Ancient Ephesus
	Analysis of the social and civic context of ancient religions in Ephesus especially through examination of--  and reflection upon--the city's extant material culture which the class will observe during a 10 day visit to   ancient Ephesus and other archaeological sites in the region (March 7-17).  Ephesus will serve as our   primary classroom.  Visits to other sites will be used for comparative purposes as we interpret the material   remains in Ephesus during 4 visits to the site.		

STH TN 838: Friendship and Paul's Letter to the Philippians
	In his letter to the Philippians, Paul gave common Greek and Roman ideas about friendship a distinctively   Christian cast in order to address internal and external struggles believers there were experiencing. We will   begin read ancients from Aristotle to Dio Chrysostom who talked about friendship to create a set of   portraits of elite friendship. We will then read Philippians in light of this common portrait, addressing: the   interrelationship of believers as "friends"; the importance of imitation, unity, suffering righteousness, and   love, for Christian living; the question of the identity of the Philippians' opponents; and challenges of   understanding themselves as a distinctive "commonwealth" within a Roman imperial colony. We will engage   modern concerns arising from these emphases throughout the course, as we place them in conversation   with the social, ethical, and theological struggles faced by first-century non-Jewish converts who were   forming new identities as Christians and seeking to understand both their relationship to Judaism and their   place within the Roman Empire. (Requires TN 721 or equivalent)		

STH TN 841: Luke-Acts
	Luke-Acts as apologetic and missionary instrument in the Roman world. Redefinition of the figure of Jesus,  Paul, and the apostles in the late first century. (Requires TN 721 or equivalent)		

STH TO 704: Hebrew Bible I
	Introduction to the religion and literature of ancient Israel; development of Hebrew scripture within its  cultural, historical, and social contexts. Required of all students who have not completed a thorough  introduction to the Hebrew Bible. A one-hour study section is also required. This course is prerequisite for  all Hebrew Bible II courses. MDIV & MTS CORE REQUIREMENT.		

STH TO 723: Biblical Hebrew I
	Hebrew grammar, including exercises in translation and composition, following Lambdin's Introduction to  Biblical Hebrew. Prepares students to read Hebrew prose. (Credit for STH TO 723 is given only after  successful completion of STH TO 724.)		

STH TO 724: Biblical Hebrew II
		Continues and presupposes STH TO 723.		

STH TO 802: The Prophetic Tradition
	The history of biblical prophecy in the context of ancient Near Eastern prophetic phenomena. Emphasis on  reading primary texts and questions of social context, role, literary forms, rhetoric, and relation to tradition  and to the present. (Requires TO 704 or equivalent)		

STH TO 804: The Book of Ezekiel
	The book of Ezekiel is radical literature; and those who would study it seriously must be prepared for  strange visions, troubling twists on traditions, weird sign acts, priestly minutiae, and almost relentless  divine anger. We will read the entire book of Ezekiel, using "among other resources" Darr's commentary on  the book of Ezekiel in the New Interpreter's Bible Commentary. Class sessions will include lectures and  seminar-style class discussions. (Requires TO 704 or equivalent)		

STH TO 807: History of Israelite Religion
	The origins and development of the religion of Israel and Judah from its earliest  roots in Canaanite culture to its transformation in the Persian period.   Attention to extra-biblical, as well as biblical evidence; the religion of family  and countryside, as well as that of cities and elites; ritual behavior and  mythological representation, and theological assertations and questionings.		

STH TO 813: Proverbs
	A study of ancient Israel's proverbs as poetry, as strategies for dealing with a  variety of social interactions,  and as compact exemplars of ancient wisdom. We  will examine both the sayings of Israel's sages and the  popular proverbs  everyone "performed," assisted not only by critical biblical scholarship, but  also by the  fields of paremiology (the study of proverbs), folklore studies, and  anthropology. (Requires TO 704 or  equivalent)		

STH TO 814: The Cultural Background of the Hebrew Bible
	Investigation of the cultural background and presuppositions of the biblical writers by interpretation of biblical texts and archeological remains and by comparison with materials from other ancient Near Eastern cultures. Implications for understanding and use of the Bible.		

STH TO 815: Hebrew Reading and Exegesis I
	Reading of selected prose texts, with some general grammatical review. Emphasis on precise exegesis and translation into fluent current English. Half course.		

STH TO 816: Hebrew Wisdom
	Hebrew wisdom as found in the Book of Proverbs, selected psalms, Ecclesiastes, and Job. Attention to   similar themes in contemporary literature. (Requires TO 704 or equivalent)		

STH TO 819: Hebrew Reading and Exegesis II
	Readings of poetic passages from the Hebrew Bible, selected from various genres and periods. Introduction to the forms of Hebrew poetry, especially parallelism. Students should expect to continue to consolidate and extend knowledge of classical Hebrew grammar, to build vocabulary, to become sensitive to different kinds of Hebrew literature and its piety or theology, to learn to recognize different literary and cultural presuppositions, and to practice imaginative reading and translation. 		

STH TO 821: The Book of Psalms
	The Psalter, its development, organization, and content. The Psalms interpreted in their worship setting.   Attention given to literary and devotional values of these lyrical classics of Israel. (Requires TO 704 or  equivalent)		

STH TO 823: The Book of Jeremiah
	The course will involve a reading of the complete book of Jeremiah with attention to the two different text  types; the different kinds of literature in the book (narrative prose, sermonic prose, and the various kinds  of poetry); the rhetoric and its cultural, social, and religious context; the character, meaning, and purpose  of individual pericopes; and the structure and purpose of the whole book. (Requires TO 704 or equivalent)		

STH TO 827: Violence in the Hebrew Bible
	TBA		

STH TO 829: Genesis
	A study of the Book of Genesis in the context of other ancient Near Eastern creation myths and stories. The    course covers the Primeval Cycle, the Abraham Cycle, the Jacob Cycle and the Joseph Narrative with special   attention to their reception and relevance for contemporary religious  audiences. Prerequisite: STH TO 704:   Hebrew Bible I.		

STH TO 831: Gender and Dominance in the Hebrew Bible
	TBA		

STH TO 835: Current Issues in Biblical Interpretation
	Examination and evaluation of several current methods and approaches. Students are encouraged to  develop a generally valid and fruitful approach. Emphasis on working with specific biblical texts. (Requires  TO 704 or equivalent)		

STH TO 838: Biblical Interpretation from Hispanic and Latin American Perspectives
	This course provides an introduction to the contexts, assumptions, and methods  of Hispanic and Latin  American Biblical exegesis and its major contributions to  Biblical and Religious Studies. The course's  objectives are: 1. To develop an  awareness of the Hispanic and Latin American approaches to the Bible,  their  differences and points of contact.; 2. To understand the different assumptions  of the Hispanic and  Latin American interpretation of the Bible; 3. To develop  intercultural exegetical skills and cross-cultural  sensitivity; 4. To experience  and develop an understanding of the reality of US Hispanics and Latin  Americans  through learning about its history, economy, political, social, and religious  context. Selected  passages from the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament will be  analyzed in terms of the cultural and  historical situation of Latin Americans  and Hispanic peoples in the United States. (Requires TO 704 or  equivalent)		

STH TO 841: The Book of the Twelve
	Expositional overview of the Book of the Twelve (Hosea, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Nahum,  Habakkuk, Zephaniah, Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi). The goal of the course is to promote a deeper  awareness of the various trends of interpretation of the Book and of its relevance for the personal and  communal life.  (Requires TO 704 or equivalent)		

STH TO 844: Ancient Egyptian Magic and Religion
	A survey of the religion and magical practices of ancient Egyptians from the time of the pyramids through   the Greco-Roman period (ca. 2600 BCE -- 400 CE). The course offers an insight into the ancient Egyptian   gods, religious thought, and ideas through the analysis of texts, iconography, and objects used in religious   / magical practices. A special focus is on the role of popular magic and religion in everyday life and in the   temple. No prerequisites. Undergraduate students are welcome to register. The course also requires   approximately six additional hours of class at the Museum of Fine Arts where students read/study pieces   of the MFA Egyptian Collection.		

STH TO 846: Middle Egyptian 1
	An introduction to the classical stage of the Egyptian script and language spoken in Ancient Egypt during  the Middle Kingdom which became the standard hieroglyphic language until the Graeco-Roman Period.		

STH TO 847: Middle Egyptian 2
	An introduction to the classical stage of the Egyptian script and language spoken in Ancient Egypt during the Middle Kingdom which became the standard hieroglyphic language until the Graeco-Roman Period.		

STH TO 851: Akkadian 1
	Akkadian grammar, including exercises in translation and composition.  (Credit for STH TO 851 is given only after successful completion of STH TO 852.)		

STH TO 852: Akkadian 2
	Akkadian grammar, including exercises in translation and composition.  (Credit for STH TO 851 is given only after successful completion of STH TO 852.)		

STH TR 802: The Sociology of Religion
	This course will introduce students to the basic ideas and methods with which sociologists have analyzed  the relationship between religion and society.  It will explore what it means to think about religious  language, symbols, communities, and practices a social phenomenon.  We will also explore the social  processes at work in congregations and denominations, new religious movements and conversion,  religious communal identity and ethnic conflict.		

STH TR 820: Black Church Studies
	TBA		

STH TR 830: Values and Practices in Developing Healthy Communities
	Important theoretical and practical issues related to cross-cultural, governmental and nongovernmental   and faith-based service work related to the practice of *Decent Care and its application in developing   healthy communities will be surveyed. Structured according a developmental approach to health and health   systems, students will be encouraged to think critically about and experience the application of values and   assumptions undergirding health systems and structures of such service work as currently envisioned and   practiced. Case studies, guest speakers, and multimedia offerings will enrich the context of informed   disciplinary and cross disciplinary approaches.   *Decent Care is a concept developed in the World Health  Organization by the instructor. Decent Care bases  the planning, delivery and evaluation of care on values  that place individuals, in their social and cultural  contexts, at the center of the caring process. The aims of  decent care are to develop health systems around  the primacy of persons in their own health care, and to  build a bridge between the principles of human  rights and the practice of medicine. By listening to and  honoring the voices of the people care processes  and models can be developed that respond to the needs  of a community enabling human flourishing.		

STH TR 840: American Evangelicalism: Conservative Protestants in the United States
	Conservative Protestantism is a vital religious movement in North American life  whose adherents make up  roughly 25-35% of the American population. This course  will introduce students to various streams of  conservative Protestant movements- -Pentecostalism, Fundamentalism, and Neo-Evangelicalism--and  their  characteristic religious patterns. Taking an interdisciplinary approach with  sociology as the lead  discipline, students will explore the major theories that  attempt to explain the vitality of these groups,  examine their impact on various  dimensions of social and political life, and assess the implications of the   exportation of these distinctively American brands of religion abroad. The  assumption that the study of  Evangelicalism and its complexities in the U.S.  context warrants deep and thoughtful study guides this  course.		

STH TR 850: Sociology of Congregational Life
	The overarching goal of this class is to provide students with a working knowledge of group and  organizational dynamics, using congregational life as a lens. Examining congregations, religious leaders,  and laity through theories of group and organizational dynamics. This is a course about how congregations  and congregational life is shaped - how the laity, pastoral staff, surrounding community, and  organizational processes all shape congregations in specific ways. We will examine the ways in which  societal factors impact congregations and congregational life. By the end of the semester, I expect students  will have a working knowledge of group and organizational dynamics, as well as research methods to  examine congregational conflicts from an individual, group, and societal level.		

STH TR 900: Qualitative Methods in the Study of Religion
	TBA		

STH TR 909: Sociology of Black Religions
	This course will survey major classic and contemporary themes in social  scientific studies of black religion in the 20th century in the United States.  Students will interrogate, among other things, popular conceptions of black  religion, the black church, and black religious experience.		

STH TR 940: Advanced Seminar in Religion and Social Change
	This seminar examines the relationship between religious ideas and practices and the world of micro and macro social change. It gives attention to both the conservative and radical potential within religion, as well as to the structures that either limit or facilitate the exercise of religious power. It covers both major theoretical perspectives and relevant research literature, with focused attention on a variety of historical and contemporary cases. 		

STH TR 964: Seminar in Social Theory and Religious Identity
	This seminar will explore a variety of theoretical perspectives on the social  formation of modern persons,  asking how those insights inform an understanding of  individual and collective religious identity.  Students  will also participate in  field research focused on the intersection of religious and social identities.		

STH TS 500: Encountering ET: Spirit, Science, and Space
	The discoveries of Copernicus/Galileo and Darwin (19th century) significantly  altered scientific and religious worldviews. People experienced a sense of  displacement from their previously perceived status in the universe. In the 21st  century, as space explorations expand, Contact with extraterrestrial life-- including intelligent life--becomes ever more possible (some people already  claim to have had visual or physical contact with UFOs and their alien  occupants). Using perspectives from science, science fiction, religion, and  United Nations space treaties, and narratives about peoples' claims of  encounters with extraterrestrial beings, this course will discuss current and  projected understandings of the human place in the cosmos; reflect on how  discovery of extraterrestrial life might impact the human sense of place in the  universe; and consider how the impacts of ET encounters (actual or theoretical)  might be positively incorporated into human consciousness and contexts.		

STH TS 800: International Conflict and the Ministry of Reconciliation
	This course proposes a theology of reconciliation for religious peace-building in the realms of ethnic division and nationalism, race, economic injustice and environmental degradation. Churches and communities of faith are not simply local and parochial bodies but are parts of wider communities of faith and practice. The course explores such corporate practice toward a public theology for the public square for Christians to live faithfully in a world of difference. 		

STH TS 804: The Religious Thinking of Howard Thurman
	This seminar examines the religious and moral dimensions in the thought of Howard Thurman (1899-1981) a leading figure in twentieth century American religious and cultural life.  The dream of community, or "the search for common ground," was the defining motif of Thurman's life and thought.  His vision of the kinship of all peoples, born out of the particularity of his own personal struggles, propelled him into the Protestant mainstream as a distinctive interpreter of the church's role in a democratic society.  He influenced a younger generation of ethical leaders in the modern Civil Rights Movement, including Martin Luther King, Jr., Pauli Murray, Marian Wright Edelman, Whitney Young, Jesse Jackson, and Vernon Jordan.		

STH TS 805: The Spirit and the Art of Conflict Transformation: Creating a Culture of  JustPeace
	This course is a response to the experience of destructive conflict in the  church and in the world, as well  as the experience of religion as a source of  conflict. More importantly, it is a response to the call to every  Christian to  be ministers of reconciliation and peacebuilders. The course will introduce  students to the  theology, theory and practice of faith-based conflict  transformation, preparing students to become  religious leaders equipped with  fundamental tools and skills for engaging conflict and transforming  conflict in  a way that advances God's goal of shalom, a culture of justpeace.		

STH TS 806: Introduction to Mediation Theory and Practice
	This course will present theory on mediation through interaction with the instructors, course readings and       practical experience.  The course utilizes a lecture/discussion format interwoven with role play experience       to help students form a strong foundation in the practice of mediation.   Students will learn theory as well       as practical skills and in the process, they will learn how to engage themselves in an appropriate way in the       mediation process.		

STH TS 807: Narrative Power and Interfaith Peacebuilding
	This course focuses on gathering, analyzing and drawing insight from the narratives of peacemakers from  Jewish, Muslim, and Christian traditions. Students will explore: narrative theology; historic peacebuilding  narratives; the art and methods of oral history; and the collection and analysis of contemporary oral  histories of interfaith peacebuilders. Drawing wisdom from these several modes of learning, each student  will construct a theological and practical contribution to inform future peacebuilding efforts.		

STH TS 818: Christian Thinking about Moral Decisions
	The purpose this course is to analyze critically the following prominent types of Christian thought    concerning moral decisions:  Christian realism; Christian responsibility/ relationalism/contextualism;     Christian moral virtue; Christian pacifism; Christian feminism; Catholic moral tradition; African American    Christian tradition; Christian womanism;  and the ubiquitous challenge of utilitarianism.		

STH TS 822: The Ethical Leadership of Martin Luther King, Jr.
	This seminar examines the life, thought, and work of Martin Luther King, Jr. as a resource for the  conceptualization and development of ethical leadership. The seminar will examine his perspective on the  public role of religion against the background of contemporary leadership theories and practices, classical  Christian views, late nineteenth-century dissenting traditions, the early twentieth-century American Social  Gospel Movement, the modern Civil Rights Movement, Black Theology and Black Nationalism, Womanist  Studies and Critical Race Theory.		

STH TS 828: The Theology and Ethics of African Peoples
	Assuming the truth of Aristotle's claim that ethics is the study of moral character the quality of which  depends on the communal context in which it is formed, this course will explore writings pertaining to the  ethical thought of African peoples living under various conditions of oppression.  Those conditions will  include slavery, racial segregation and disfranchisement in the United States; colonialism in Africa and the  Caribbean; racial apartheid in South Africa. Special attention will be given to the ethical development of  women who were oppressed both within and without those cultural contexts. In short, students will  discover how men and women formed moral communities and became moral beings by creating various  forms of resistance to oppression. 		

STH TS 829: Christian Ecological Ethics and Political Issues
	This course will introduce students to the character and dimensions of the  ecological crisis and will; to help them reflect theologically and ethically on  ecological problems, to develop or enhance their particular faith tradition's  theoretical and practical engagement with ecological issues, gain knowledge of  the intersection of ecology and economics, and political and public policy  implications of this relationship, and to formulate public policy possibilities  and practical projects to address and seek to solve ecological problems.		

STH TS 837: Comparative Religious Ethics
	Philosophical and religious perspectives in the meaning of the good life and the good society. Comparative study of social ethics in Christianity and other world religions with particular attention to one or two selected contemporary issues, such as the erosion of community, economic problems, humanity's relationship to the environment, and human rights. 		

STH TS 840: Seminar in Religion and Social Change
	An exploration of the relationship between religion and social change, including the problems of modernization and globalization. Particular attention to the ways in which religion either supports the status quo or promotes social change, involving such problems as fundamentalist and utopian movements in the worldwide and contemporary setting.		

STH TS 845: Christian Social Ethics
	Comparative study of historical and contemporary Christian approaches to the nature, sources, methods,  and concepts of ethics in diverse contexts. The course is in two parts: an historical overview of the  development of Christian social ethics from biblical times to the twenty-first century; an in-depth  exploration of approaches to specific contemporary social issues including war and peace, ecology,  economic justice, and equality. 		

STH TS 854: The Boston University Ethical Tradition
	This seminar is designed to orient participants to the BU tradition in theology   and ethics that has its roots in the 19th century. We will consider the Boston   Personalists beginning with Borden Parker Bowne, John Wesley Edward Bowen, and   especially the work of Edgar S. Brightman, as well as the later Personalists --  Albert C. Knudson and Francis McConnell. We will also explore the works of   Georgia Harkness, L. Harold DeWolf, Peter Bertocci, and in particular, Walter   Muelder (and the Moral Law tradition). There is an emphasis on Howard Thurman   and his impact on BU, as well as the influence of the BU ethical tradition on   the life and work of Martin Luther King, Jr. We will also consider the ethics of   contemporary exponents of the BU ethical tradition. Throughout the seminar,   there is consideration given to the philosophical and theological roots of the   BU ethical tradition as well as its social, economic, and political   applications. This tradition is based on the belief in a personal God who cares   about people, and made each person in the divine image-endowed with inherent   value, worth and dignity. This is a central message of the BU ethical tradition,   and in the seminar, we will look at is foundations as well as its evolution, and   also why that tradition historically was attractive to Black graduate students   in theology and social ethics.		

STH TS 862: Global Ethics in Cultural Contexts
	An in-depth study of distinctive approaches to economic, ethnic, gender and   political justice in diverse regions: North America, Latin America, Africa, Asia   and Israel/Palestine.  Liberation theology perspectives - African American,   Feminist, Womanist, Mujerista, Latin American, Native American, Asian, African,   Jewish and Palestinian - will provide bases for developing transcultural social   ethics.  		

STH TS 863: Ethical Leadership and African American Moral Traditions
	This seminar is designed to acquaint students with major figures, movements, and issues in black  American religious, social, cultural and ethical traditions. The seminar, which focuses heavily on leadership  emerging from 19th and 20th century black culture, examines African American leadership from a  narrative perspective, utilizing primary and secondary source materials; explores theoretical and practical  elements of leadership in specific historical contexts; evaluates competencies traditionally associated with  African American leadership practices; and offers a forum for practical engagement with contemporary  problems associated with African American life and culture.		

STH TS 867: Christianity and Ecology in Community Contexts
	A study of Christian and Native American spiritual insights related to  ecological perspectives, principles,  and practices. Student classroom sessions,  research, and analysis will be complemented by field work:  engagement with  members of faith traditions and environmental organizations in the Boston area.   Writings of theologians and ecologists, statements from individual denominations  and ecumenical  associations, teachings of native elders, and the relationship of  the proposed Earth Charter to religious  teachings and current ecological issues  will be discussed. Economics, ethics, and ecology will be  integrated with the  evolving School of Theology Green Vision statement, its implementation on  campus,  and its engagement in projects with community organizations and faith  communities off-campus.		

STH TS 877: The Principles and Practices of Restorative Justice
	A study of the fundamental principles and practices of restorative justice as applicable to church and  society. The course explores the needs and roles of key stakeholders (victims, offenders, communities,  justice systems), outlines the basic principles and values of restorative justice, introduces some of the  primary models of practice, and identifies challenges to restorative justice and strategies to respond to  them. The course is organized around the issue of crime and harm within a western legal context, but  attention is given to applications in other contexts. Of particular interest is the contribution of traditional  or indigenous approaches to justice as well as applications in post-conflict situations. 		

STH TS 889: Sacred Earth: Indigenous Peoples' Ecological Traditions
	A study of indigenous peoples' traditional teachings about the relationship of  spirituality, ecology, and  community well-being. A particular focus will be the  words and works of representative twentieth-century  writers and spiritual  leaders, and include the life and teachings of Lakota elder Black Elk; Muskogee  elder  Phillip Deere; Wanapum elder David Sohappy; and Dakota scholar and  activist Vine Deloria, Jr. 		

STH TS 893: Spirit, Science, and Space: Cosmoethics
	The discoveries of Copernicus/Galileo and Darwin (19th century) significantly altered scientific and    religious worldviews. People experienced a sense of displacement from their previously perceived status  in   the universe. In the 21st century, as space explorations expand, Contact with extraterrestrial life--    including intelligent life--becomes ever more possible (some people already claim to have had visual or    physical contact with UFOs and their alien occupants). Using perspectives from science, science fiction,    religion, and United Nations space treaties, and narratives about peoples' claims of encounters with    extraterrestrial beings, this course will discuss current and projected understandings of the human  place   in the cosmos; reflect on how discovery of extraterrestrial life might impact the human sense of  place in   the universe; and consider how the impacts of ET encounters (actual or theoretical) might be  positively   incorporated into human consciousness and contexts.		

STH TS 894: Being Church in the 21st Century: Congregational Clinic
	This course is a 2-credit teaching-learning laboratory, rooted in Boston University School of Theology's     Religion and Conflict Transformation Program, and focused on collaborative teaching and learning in    areas  of congregational change, conflict, wholeness and healing in the twenty-first century.   Rooted in    theological and biblical foundations, this course will have a particular emphasis on a relational     understanding of congregations, sacraments as core to shalom and reconciliation, the nature of    community  and naming and dealing with issues of power and authority.  This course expects mutual    sharing and  learning among the various participants.   		

STH TS 896: Religion, Economics, and the Common Good
	A study of the relationship between religion, economics, and societal well-being,  particularly as explored  in the presentation and critique of a "Protestant  ethic." The subsequent integration of political, economic,  sociological, and  religious insights will provide a foundation for the formulation of community- based and  community-oriented social institutions. 		

STH TS 897: Ethics and Public Policy
	The purpose of this course is to help students gain knowledge of and appreciation for the theological,  ethical, and socio-analytic dimensions of public policy and how to integrate those elements in their  descriptive and prescriptive analyses of specific social problems.		

STH TS 899: The Continuing Relevance of Aristotle's Ethics and Politics
	This seminar will undertake a close reading and a critical inquiry into Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics and   Politics  in order to discern how his thought can be a helpful resource for the study and practice of ethics   and politics in our day.		

STH TS 903: Models of Community
	TBA		

STH TS 925: Advanced Ecological Ethics
	An in-depth study of cross-disciplinary, cross-religious, and cross-cultural approaches to ecological    issues, oriented toward understanding diverse issues in breadth and depth; and a collaborative, creative    development of ecological ethical concepts and principles proposed to inform and be integrated into    human consciousness and communities, and implemented in community projects.		

STH TS 929: Christian Ecological Ethics and Political Issues
	This course will introduce students to the character and dimensions of the  ecological crisis and will; to help them reflect theologically and ethically on  ecological problems, to develop or enhance their particular faith tradition's  theoretical and practical engagement with ecological issues, gain knowledge of  the intersection of ecology and economics, and political and public policy  implications of this relationship, and to formulate public policy possibilities  and practical projects to address and seek to solve ecological problems.		

STH TS 950: History of the Social Teachings of the Church
	This seminar will explore the development of the social teachings of the Church  from the time of Jesus through the 20th century.  The works of E. Troeltsch and  H.R. Niebuhr will be relied upon, with a focus on the development of the early  Christian social teachings, the medieval synthesis, the Reformation era, and  especially the rise of urban-industrial capitalism and its impact on the social  teachings of the Churches. Special emphasis will be given to the major events of  the 19th century such as the abolition of slavery as well as the beginnings of  the women's suffrage movement and other dimensions of the liberation of women. 		

STH TS 951: Contemporary Social Teachings for the Christian Church
	An in-depth study of major contemporary social issues, utilizing the works of key Christian social ethicists, as expressed in the Protestant, Anglican, Eastern Orthodox, and Roman Catholic traditions and in theologies of liberation. Issues such as sexuality and human reproduction, war and peace, economic and social justice, racism, gender, social class, and the use/misuse and protection of natural resources, will be viewed through the perspective of different religious traditions. Special emphasis will be placed on ecumenical and interfaith social ethics, the rise and significance of the Christian Right, and development of the tools needed to do social ethics in different social and cultural contexts. 		

STH TS 957: Seminar: the Church and Human Rights
	Philosophical, religious, and social problems of defining human rights and the related ideas of human dignity, justice, and the common good. Special attention to comparative understanding of human rights in Confucianism, Christianity, and Islam, exploring an alternative economic order and society that would serve the human person.		

STH TS 961: History of Western Ethics and Social Philosophy
	This seminar focuses on the ways Greek philosophy (Plato, Aristotle, Stoics) influenced Christian theology and ethics (Augustine and Aquinas), and how that Christian theological and ethical tradition influenced Luther, Calvin and other Reformers.  There will also be a look at the key figures in philosophy (Hume, Kant, Grotius, and others) who shaped modern Western ethics. Emphasis will also be placed on the development of Western social and political philosophy which led to the modern democratic state (Locke, Bentham, J.S. Mill, A. Smith), utilitarianism and cost-benefit analysis, as well as the works of revolutionary thinkers (Nietzsche and Marx) and also the seminal feminist thinkers (C. DePizan, M. Wollstonecraft, H. Taylor).  In addition, there will be efforts to explore the social and philosophical roots of the movements that led to the abolition of slavery as well as to the promotion of gender equality.  Consideration will be given to the social/political/economic context that influenced the thinking of the writers, as well as a look at some of the readings from a feminist and multicultural standpoint. Particular emphasis will be placed on the relevance of these thinkers in our society.  We should be aware of their shortcomings (class, cultural, racial and gender biases), but also be appreciative of their contributions to modern thinking. 		

STH TS 962: Global Ethics in Cultural Contexts
	An in-depth study of distinctive approaches to economic, ethnic, gender and  political justice in diverse regions: North America, Latin America, Africa, Asia  and Israel/Palestine. Liberation theology perspectives - African American,  Feminist, Womanist, Mujerista, Latin American, Native American, Asian, African,  Jewish and Palestinian - will provide bases for developing transcultural social  ethics. 		

STH TS 967: Christianity and Ecology in Community Contexts
	A study of Christian and Native American spiritual insights related to ecological perspectives, principles,  and practices. Student classroom sessions, research, and analysis will be complemented by field work:  engagement with members of faith traditions and environmental organizations in the Boston area. Writings  of theologians and ecologists, statements from individual denominations and ecumenical associations,  teachings of native elders, and the relationship of the proposed Earth Charter to religious teachings and  current ecological issues will be discussed. Economics, ethics, and ecology will be integrated with the  evolving School of Theology Green Vision statement, its implementation on campus, and its engagement in  projects with community organizations and faith communities off-campus.		

STH TS 999: The Continuing Relevance of Aristotle's Ethics and Politics
	This seminar will undertake a close reading and a critical inquiry into Aristotle's Nicomacheon Ethics and   Politics  in order to discern how his thought can be a helpful resource for the study and practice of ethics   and politics in our day.		

STH TT 731: Theology & World Religions
	As students, scholars, spiritual seekers and religious leaders we live in a  modern world manifesting many  forms of diversity. One key form of this diversity  is religious pluralism. We become more and more aware  that that, for instance,  all the historical religions of the world now comprise the spiritual mosaic of   spiritual life in North America. This course provides an overview of the  historical development of the  world's religions in order to better understand  the current spiritual pluralism of North America. While the  history of world  religions does not explain everything that is happening in the lives of modern  religious  people, informed understanding of these religions is still essential  for anyone who seeks to dialogue in a  meaningful fashion with a person of  another faith tradition. The course will focus on both the emic (inner   dimensions) and etic (outer dimensions) of the historical and spiritual  development of the world's  religions. We will stress the differences as well as  the similar features of the religions. We will also ask  genuine theological  questions because we live, work, communicate and minister in diverse religious   communities of faith.		

STH TT 732: History of Christian Theology in Philosophical Perspective
	Christianity called itself a "philosophy" in its early centuries and its  theology has always been highly  responsive to philosophical thought, even when  it has attempted to be anti-philosophical. This course  tracks the history of  Western European Christian theology through the influences of Plato and Plotinus  on  Augustine and Bonaventura, Aristotle on Thomas Aquinas, the rise of early  modern subjectivism on Luther  and Calvin, the influences of Kant and Hegel on  Schleiermacher, Barth, and Tillich, the rise of process  theology, and the  influence of Marx on liberation and postmodern theologies.  The emphasis will be  more  on the shaping of theological contours than on the philosophies themselves.		

STH TT 733: Constructive Theology
	This course introduces students to the major themes of Christian theology with  the aim of providing them  with a framework for effective and faithful  theological reflection. Beginning with revelation and ending  with eschatology,  we follow a familiar progression in the study of systematic theology, examining  modern  and postmodern theological perspectives on God, creation, human nature,  sin, Christology, ecclesiology  and other doctrinal loci. The methodological  approach is constructive, in that emphasis is placed on  helping students  integrate central issues of faith in response to contemporary issues.		

STH TT 803: Resurrection: Eschatology for the 21st Century
	TBA		

STH TT 805: The Theology and Ethics of Reinhold and H. Richard Niebuhr
	The purpose of this course is three-fold:  (a) to understand the methodologies of each of the Niebuhr   brothers; (b) to discern their similarities and differences; (c) to assess the extent to which the thought of   each may or may not be a helpful resource for analyzing contemporary moral problems and providing   ethical guidelines for their resolution. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 806: Theology and Literature
	This course explores the theological relevance of literature through an examination of contemporary fiction   and examines the benefits and limitations of writing theology in the form of fiction. (Requires TF 701/702  or equivalent)		

STH TT 811: Mysticism & Philosophy: Medieval Jewish
	Thematic introduction to mysticism and philosophy, with a focus on dynamics of religious experience.   Readings from medieval Jewish philosophy, Kabbalah, Biblical interpretation, Sufi-inspired mysticism,   poetry from the Golden Age of Muslim Spain. Attention to interactions with Islamic philosophy and   mysticism. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 813: Proseminar in Science and Religion
	Quantum entanglement is one of the most remarkable ideas to have emerged from physics in the twentieth    century. Identified as a consequence of quantum theory already in the 1920s, it was not confirmed as a    physical phenomenon until the 1980s. The broader implications of living in an "entangled" world are only    beginning to be felt outside the walls of physics. This course explores the significance of quantum    entanglement for theological reflection on creaturely and divine relationality. (Requires TF 701/702 or  equivalent)		

STH TT 815: Introduction to Chinese Religion
	An introduction to the history of the intellectual and spiritual development of  the Confucian tradition from   its beginnings to the modern period in China, Korea,  and Japan. Special emphasis is placed on the classical   and Neo-Confucian phases,  as well as on contemporary Confucian-Christian dialogue. (Requires TF  701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 816: Atheisms and Theologies
	The general aim of this course is learn about varieties of atheism-older  "classic atheism," so-called "new  atheism" of recent years, and theologically inspired forms of atheism-and to understand the various  theological responses to atheism. Questions of particular importance are: (1) How strong are traditional  and new atheistic arguments? (2) Where does or should theology stand in relation to the arguments of  atheism? (3) What are the origins of modern atheism? (4) Should postmodern mystical theologies and  iconoclastic anti-anthropomorphic theologies that reject a determinate divine being be considered  atheistic? If so how does this sort of atheism relate to other types? The class is intended for advanced  masters students and doctoral candidates interested in con-temporary theology and its conceptual roots in  older theological debates. Meets with STH TT 956. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 818: Development of Christian Thought: The Holy Spirit
	A re-examination of Spirit is essential to post-9/11 Christianity and an understanding of God's presence  and activity in our time. This course explores this claim and seeks to provide students with both a  historical and constructive study of a doctrine of the Holy Spirit. Tracking the Spirit through the Christian  tradition, from the biblical texts in Genesis to the present day, we will focus on the major movements in  which a doctrine of the Spirit takes precedence, i.e. the Reformation, Quakerism, the Holiness movement,  Pentecostalism, and African-American gospel traditions. Exploring the rich textual imagery and embodied  testimonies associated with Spirit, we will explore the connections between Spirit and issues of justice,  reconciliation, suffering, and healing. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 819: Institute for Philosophy and Religion
	This course, taught in the fall, runs in tandem with the annual program of the  Institute for Philosophy and Religion (www.bu.edu/ipr) and affords students the  opportunity for in-depth exploration of the issues and texts related to each  year's series.		

STH TT 821: Topics in Philosophy and Future of Religion
	Examines key questions in the contemporary philosophy of religion, including the possibility of religion   without God, "naturalized" or scientific views of religion, religious pluralism, and inter-religious tolerance.   Featuring visiting lecturers in fall Institute for Philosophy and Religion lecture series. (Requires TF 701/702  or equivalent)		

STH TT 824: Scientific Approach to Religion
	This seminar examines interpretations of religious beliefs, behaviors, and experiences deriving from the    biological, evolutionary, psychological, cognitive, neurological, and medical sciences. (Requires TF 701/702  or equivalent)		

STH TT 825: John Wesley's Theology Today
	The theology of John Wesley, though projected from an historical past, is a living and dynamic force in  contemporary theology. This course examines the primary doctrinal, methodological, and practical  commitments of John Wesley?s theology as developed in his sermons, hymns, writings, and life-praxis.   The course also explores contemporary trends in Methodism and in Wesleyan theology more generally as  they attempt to respond to the present theological situation and to the future prospects of a Christian faith  lived out in the twenty-first century. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 828: Liberal Evangelical Christianity
	The general aim of this course is to learn about the history, sociology,  theology, and ethics of the tension  between liberals and evangelicals that has  persisted among Protestant Christians within the United States,  under various  names, since early in the nineteenth century. The specific aim is to situate a  variety of  moderate possibilities within this tension. These range from mid- twentieth-century movements such Neo- Evangelicalism (represented by Billy Graham  and Carl Henry, among others) and the hearty reception of  famous preacher Harry  Emerson Fosdick, who defined himself as 'liberal evangelical'; through the   revolutionary social visions of evangelicals such as Ron Sider and Tony Campolo,  the cultural critique of  Jim Wallis and the Sojourners Community, and the  Christian pacificism of Anabaptists such as John Howard  Yoder; to the green  evangelicals, liberal evangelicals, evangelical liberals, progressive  evangelicals, and  radical moderates of today. The class is intended for master's  students interested in the liberal-evangelical  tension and especially in the  prospects for transcending that tension both in individual faith identities and   in congregational contexts. The class should help participants become more  articulate communicators and  more effective leaders around issues bearing on  this tension. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 832: Paul Tillich
	Centered on one of the major theological works of the twentieth century, the Systematic Theology, this  course is designed to assist students to contextualize, interpret, and analyze the thought of Paul Tillich  and to assess its significance for contemporary theology. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 833: Religion and Science
	Explores recent developments in the theoretical and cultural relations between religion and science, paying  particular attention to strategies for moving beyond the limitations of the pervasive ?conflict? view. No  specific background in science required. Focuses primarily, though not exclusively, on the interaction  between Christian thought and the natural sciences. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 837: Doing Theology in a Global Context
	Methodological course which aims to construct a theological method that is appropriate and helpful to   theologians and pastors in a post-colonial and globalized world.  This would involve mapping the   global/post-colonial context and examining the various sources, methods, and norms of theology in light   of this new context. Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 838: Religious Thought: Happiness East and West
	What is happiness? How can we achieve a balanced, healthy, flourishing life?  Classical thinkers such as  Aristotle, Plato, Chuang Tzu; Stoic, Epicurean,  Confucian, Buddhist paths; comparison with contemporary  happiness studies. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 840: Images of Christ in World Christianity
	This is a course in Christology, approached from a world Christianity  perspective.  I introduce students to   a variety of images of Christ from all  over the world - mostly in the form of paintings, sculptures, and   other pieces  of art and some writings - and help them to reflect on the content and method of    christological reflection.  This is done without neglecting the African-American  and Feminist/Womanist   concerns. Students are given the option of turning in a  piece of art portraying their own image of Christ in   lieu of a final paper. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 841: Christian Encounters with Hinduism
	This course begins with a survey of Hinduism - its history, beliefs, and  practices - and moves on to trace  the history of Hindu-Christian encounter both  in India and the US.  Three pieces of writing are studied as  samples of  encounter - my book on The Crucified Guru, John Thatamanil's book The Imminent  Divine,  and Francis Clooney's Christian God, Hindu God.  The course ends with  examining the various theologies  of religions and constructing a appropriate  theological stance for a healthy encounter with Hindus today.   The course will  involve both visit to Hindu temple, and meeting Hindus as guest speakers in the  class.  (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 842: Lab Placement
	This is a course for students in a variety of Boston University School of Theology and Division of Religious  and Theological Studies degree programs who are registered for laboratory placements. It is not available  to students at other schools in the Boston Theological Institute.		

STH TT 844: War and the Human: Theological Responses to 21st century War
	What motivates us to fight? What are the practices of war saying about who we are, as persons and as a   nation? What is the impact of war? This course brings theological insights to bear on current practices of   war. Beginning with analysis of the dimensions of 21st century war, we will explore perennial human   questions raised within the context of war: love/hate, shame/guilt, conscience, justice, community,   identity, and death. This course aims to deepen theological exploration and also seeks to empower   students to develop constructive theological responses to war. The course focuses on current practices  of  war by the U.S. and features site-visits and engagements with different sectors of society directly  involved  in war/healing work.  Topics addressed include: terror & the role of religion in war post 9/11;  religion in  the military (chaplains, race, class, gender, religious pluralism); the discourse of war - just  war, pacifism;  technology, intelligence, & the media; trauma and war; the function of race, class, and  gender in war;  peace, protest, and religious communities. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 845: Spirituality, Medicine & Health
	The general aim of this science-religion course is to learn about the complex entanglements among  religious traditions and spirituality, medical traditions and healing modalities, and norms for physical and  mental health.  This will involve (i) in Part 1 of the course, gaining a basic grasp on the history of the  medical traditions of China, India, the Middle East, and the West, including the metaphysical frameworks  that inform those traditions; (ii) in Part 2 of the course, studying the complex controversy over spirituality  and health research and attempting to decide whether and how the efficacy of healing modalities is to be  evaluated; (iii) in Part 3 of the course,  understanding how western biomedicine interacts with the array of  medical traditions and spiritually inspired healing modalities that thrive in the West; and (iv) throughout the  course, addressing philosophical, theological,  and ethical questions about norms for mental and physical  health and comparing metaphysical frameworks for health and healing.  The class is intended for advanced  masters students and doctoral candidates interested in the science-religion dialogue, and particularly in  spirituality and health. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 849: Queer Theology
	This course examines the emergence of queer theology as it has been derived from queer theory and    LGBTQ social justice activists. It will acquaint students with the history of the term "queer", its challenges,    its reappropriation and the impact queer theology is having on the Christian faith and practices. We will    especially investigate how "queering" may contribute to theology as academic discipline, church practice    and as an instrument of social justice. This course will privilege an intersectional analysis. (Requires TF  701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 852: Theological Thinking for Everyday Life and Ministry
	This course aims to teach theological thinking by doing a lot of it. The class is designed to place the  specific experiences of participants in conversation with each other and with the wisdom of the authors of  the readings. The aim is to become more effective theological thinkers. (Requires TF 701/702 or  equivalent)		

STH TT 854: Classic Jewish Thought
	This course investigates basic human and religious issues as they have been  understood in the classical  Jewish tradition: creation and revelation, good and  evil, the nature of suffering, the relationship between  God and human beings,  and the relationships of human beings to one another. We will explore these   issues through investigation of sources from the Bible, midrashic literature,  Talmud, and Jewish  philosophy.  Special attention to the role of Torah and its  interpretation in Jewish life and thought.  (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 855: Theology of Christian Mysticism
		A concentrated venture in philosophical theology.  This lecture, reading and discussion course centers on   the thought, not the praxis, of selected major mystics in the Christian tradition.  Overviews Greek   philosophical backgrounds then moves to a close examination of Eckhart, Nicolas of Cusa, Boehme, and   William Blake. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 856: Preaching for the Modern World: Preaching Theological Challenges
	Consideration of the ways in which the contexts of preaching today differ from those in which the familiar  formulations of theology came into being as well as the theological implications of the differences.  (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 857: Postmodern Theology and Spirituality
	This course examines the impact of philosophers like Nietzsche, Foucault, Levinas, Irigaray, and Derrida on  the study of theology. Rather than shutting down a religious conversation, theologians within this tradition  argue that postmodern thought opens up religious questions in new ways. What does postmodernism  reveal about religious confessions and practices? How does this conversation help us to understand some  of the shifts in spirituality and religious practice in our contemporary world? (John Caputo, Mark C. Taylor,  Catherine Keller, and Mark D. Jordan). (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 858: Theologies of Dialogue
		An examination of the major contemporary theological options proposed for the theory and practice of   dialogue by the churches and theological communities. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 861: Varieties of Religious Naturalisms
	The aim of this seminar is to learn about varieties of religious naturalism and how they have been, and     can be, incorporated into philosophical and theological reflection. The seminar will read a variety of  works    in contemporary religious naturalism, from twentieth-century classics to current contributions,  and from    theoretical analyses of the meaning of naturalism to surveys attempting to map out the  territory of    plausible viewpoints. We will also track the close relationship between religious naturalism  and both    ecologically-rooted forms of spirituality and nature-centered forms of mysticism. (Requires TF 701/702 or  equivalent)		

STH TT 862: Theologies of Liberation
	Theologies of liberation originated in the mid-twentieth century and have  continued in various forms and  contexts on into the twenty-first century. This  course examines some of the classic texts in Latin  American, Asian, Hispanic,  Black, Womanist, Queer, and Feminist liberation theology and aims at an   understanding of their sources, methods, hermeneutic, and primary themes. (Requires TF 701/702 or  equivalent)		

STH TT 865: Religious Dimensions of Whitehead's Philosophy
	A detailed study of Whitehead's physical and metaphysical thought provides a framework for a formal  consideration of his religious ideas. Hartshorne's transformation of Whitehead's metaphysical and religious  ideas into pantheism. Philosophical ideas in process theology. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 866: Feminist and Womanist Theologies
	Feminist and womanist theologians provide some of the sharpest theological  analyses of the ways in which  power functions both within and outside of  religious institutions. This course explores these contributions  to an  understanding of power, both divine and human, and the ways in which practices  and professions of  religious traditions can be both death-dealing and life- giving. How does power operate on bodies, in  institutions, in global markets?  What is the fuel "the power" necessary for social change and  transformation?  Examining critical moments in 20th century movements of liberation, this course  draws  on theory, theology, literature, and media to give theological depth and  understanding to religious claims  about love, power, and justice. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 871: Science Literacy and Scientific Boundary Questions
	This course introduces contemporary science to students with research and writing interests in the area  of   science, philosophy, and religion. It also treats scientific boundary questions, which are philosophical,    ethical, and theological questions raised by science yet not answerable within science itself. This is more    than a popular science course; it is the course to take when you are ready to go beyond popular science,    and you are ready for integrative thinking that connects science, philosophy, history, ethics, and  theology.   The Fall semester lectures are on the biological sciences. That semester can be taken  independently of the   Spring semester on physics. The mathematics required for the Spring lectures on  physics is taught   through the whole year in a separate meeting. You should consult the instructor about  your background   and readiness to take this course prior to registering.		

STH TT 872: Science Literacy and Scientific Boundary Questions
	This course introduces contemporary science to students with research and writing interests in the area of    science, philosophy, and religion. It also treats scientific boundary questions, which are philosophical,    ethical, and theological questions raised by science yet not answerable within science itself. This is more    than a popular science course; it is the course to take when you are ready to go beyond popular science,    and you are ready for integrative thinking that connects science, philosophy, history, ethics, and theology.    TT872 lectures are on physics. TT871, on the biological sciences, can be taken independently of TT872 on    physics. The mathematics required for the TT872 lectures on physics is taught through the whole year in a    separate meeting. You should consult the instructor about your background and readiness to take TT871    or TT872 prior to registering.  		

STH TT 874: Contemporary Theological Systems
	An exploration of contemporary systematic perspectives on the Christian faith aimed at facilitating the  development of the student's own ability to think theologically and to construct his or her own theological  perspective in light of his or her own theological tradition and the contemporary situation. (Requires TF  701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 889: Theologies of Sexual Identity
	A study of the conceptual, biblical, historical, scientific, and critical roots of the current issues about sexual  identity, focusing on women's ordination and gay marriage as prisms to understand the feminist and gay  cultural revolutions.  These movements have called attention to sexual identities more generally, and the  theology of sexually identity for all human beings will be developed. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 890: Topics in Speculative Philosophy: The Axiology of Thinking
	A detailed study of the thesis that valuation structures thinking in imagination, interpretation, theorizing,  and the pursuit of responsibility. Principal texts are the instructor's Reconstruction of Thinking, Recovery of  the Measure, and Normative Cultures. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 895: Rise of Neo-Confucianism
	This course is an analysis of the rise of Neo-Confucianism in the Song Dynasty and its continued    development in the Yuan, Ming and Qing Dynasties in China as well as its transmission to Korea, Japan and    Vietnam. The synthesis of Zhu Xi's daoxue 道學 [Chu Hsi] (1130-1200) will serve as a major    case study of the development and influence of Neo-Confucian philosophy. The course will also pursue the    modern developments of New Confucianism in East Asia and the West with the examples of New    Confucianism and Boston Confucianism. One of the interesting features in the modern period has been the    revival of Confucian-Christian dialogue. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 898: Theology and Trauma
	This course aims to bring the recent studies in the interdisciplinary study of  trauma to bear on the field of  theology. What unique challenges does the  phenomenon of trauma pose to contemporary theology?  The  first part of the  course explores recent studies in trauma, focusing on three areas of research:  1)  neurobiology of trauma, 2) clinical/therapeutic studies, and 3) literary  approaches to trauma.   The second  part of the course examines theological  engagements with issues of radical suffering.  The third part  brings together  the insights from the first two and focuses on the question of what it means to  witness  theologically to individual, societal, and global trauma. We will look  at issues and contexts such as the  criminal justice system, war, poverty, and  racism. In this final part, students will be working towards  constructive  theological engagements with issues of trauma through interaction with a variety  of  mediums: art, literature, spiritual practices, and film.    The course is not  a counseling course. It aims to  provide rich theological reflection around  issues of suffering, violence, and trauma, both individual and  global. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 899: Schleiermacher
	The primary aim of this course is read and understand the theology of Friedrich  Daniel Ernst   Schleiermacher, one  of the most important and influential European  intellectuals of the 19th century, and   known variously as the Father  of  Romanticism, the Father of Hermeneutics, the Father of German Plato   studies, the  Father of Modern Protestant  Theology, and the Father of Liberal Christian  Theology. The   course focuses on The Christian Faith (CF) but also  covers some  other of his writings particularly On   Religion: Speeches to Its Cultured  Despisers (OR) and Letters  to LÃ¼cke (LL) and some biographical   material. The  secondary aim is to help students develop their own  theological ideas in  detailed   conversation with Schleiermacher's, a purpose for which CF is  particularly well  suited. (Requires TF  701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 900: The Theological Imagination
	Within the arena of constructive theology, theologians are increasingly describing their theological projects  in terms of analyzing and reshaping "imaginaries." The course traces the emergence of this 'turn to the  imaginary' within modernity and postmodernity and examines what's at stake theologically in this turn.  This seminar involves: 1) exploring the concept of 'the imaginary,' identifying philosophical, sociological  and literary influences; 2) articulating what's at stake for theology; and 3) constructing theological visions  that can expand the study and practices of Christian traditions. The first part situates the rise of the  concept of the imaginary within the context of modern theology. Here, we will examine the varying reasons  for theological appeals to the imagination, asking what's at stake for each and will examine the portrait  that each presents of theology's relationship to modernity. We will be engaging questions of the nature and  task of theology, theological method, immanence/transcendence, and religious language. The second part  will focus on critiques of the western (Christian) imaginary. In this part, we take a decidedly postmodern  turn and explore the appeals to the imaginary from various thinkers who are trying to reshape the  imaginary otherwise. The third part will focus on the form of theology and explore the implications of our  study for the re-forming of theological discourse.		

STH TT 901: Core Texts and Motifs: Western Traditions
	An intensive year seminar, in English translation, of key primary texts and  philosophical-theological-religious ideas of Buddhism, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism,  and Taoism. Particularly well suited to doctoral students. Advanced master's  students with permission of instructor only.		

STH TT 902: Core Texts and Motifs of World Religions: East
	Prereq:(CASCC101 & CASCC102) or two courses in religion or philosophy. *An intensive seminar in primary  texts and key ideas of theology and religious philosophy as developed in representative world religions:  Hinduism, Buddhism, Daoism, Confucianism. Second course in a year-long sequence. Each semester may  be taken independently.  		

STH TT 913: Science and Religion
	Quantum entanglement is one of the most remarkable ideas to have emerged from physics in the twentieth    century. Identified as a consequence of quantum theory already in the 1920s, it was not confirmed as a    physical phenomenon until the 1980s. The broader implications of living in an "entangled" world are only    beginning to be felt outside the walls of physics. This course explores the significance of quantum    entanglement for theological reflection on creaturely and divine relationality.		

STH TT 921: Proseminar: Religion and Science
	This doctoral level seminar provides an advanced introduction to the core literature and issues of the interdisciplinary field of religion and science. The primary texts are Ian Barbour's Religion and Science: Historical and Contemporary Issues, John Hedley Brooke's Science and Religion: Some Historical Perspectives, the edited collection titled Religion and Science: History, Method, Dialogue (Mark Richardson and Wesley Wildman, eds.), and the Oxford Handbook of Religion and Science (Philip Clayton, ed.). The four primary areas considering during the semester are: historical relations, comparative method, disciplinary perspectives, and theoretical debates. The course is a requirement for BU PhD students in the science and religion track of Division of Religious and Theological Studies. Advanced masters students may enroll with the instructor's permission.  		

STH TT 923: Philosophical Cosmology
	The purpose of this course is to introduce students to major positions in  philosophical cosmology relative to the twin questions of the nature of God and  scientific knowledge of the natural world.  Connected with both of these is the  question of where value lies in the world, if anywhere, given the assumptions of  a fact-value distinction in modern science. The main interest will be with  discussions in the West, although some comparative points will be made. 		

STH TT 924: Theological Aesthetics
	Why is the retrieval of beauty essential in an age of terror? Grace Jantzen suggests that a displacement of beauty in western consciousness can be directly correlated with the increase of violence in post/modernity. Following JantzenÂs call for a theology of beauty, we will explore the significance of aesthetics in the current religious landscape. Using Hans Urs von BalthasarÂs theological aesthetics as a lens for exploring the relationship between beauty and the divine, we will examine key works in western thought in which beauty plays a significant role (Plato, Augustine, Pseudo-Dionysius, John Damascene, Bonaventure, Kierkegaard). In the second half of the course, we will survey recent discussions of aesthetics in continental philosophy, literature, and ethics as they intersect with the study of religion (using Continental Aesthetics Reader). In these latter sessions, we will focus on specialized topics: sacred space, sacred dance, sacred bodies and advertising, and sacred writing in order to see how the theory engaged in the first part of the course informs contemporary issues. What impact does this theological retrieval have on contemporary discussions of justice, trauma, conflict, and terror? What role could theological aesthetics play in a heavily visual culture? Although we will trace beauty predominantly through Christian thought, students are encouraged to pursue projects in which they explore the aesthetic dimensions of other religions. 		

STH TT 925: Special topics: Contemporary Pragmatism
	Readings in contemporary pragmatism, including Richard Rorty, Cornel West, Jeffrey Stout, Victor   Anderson, Robert Brandom, Richard Bernstein, Warren Frisina, and Robert Neville. 		

STH TT 928: Theology Proseminar
	The purpose of this seminar is professional formation of doctoral students in Boston University through the study of certain central approaches to theology and an introduction to program requirements, faculty and library resources, reading lists, and qualifying examinations.		

STH TT 929: Proseminar in Comparative Theology
	A study of the development of the new theological sub-discipline known as Comparative Theology (comparative here means the comparison and contrast between and among different traditions representing diverse cultural regions, both diachronic and synchronic in form and function). There will be a series of introductory remarks by the instructor (ca. two weeks). For the balance of the course, students will make class presentations based on various readings and more specialized research projects. The goal of the course will be to provide an overview of the field as well as the articulation of individual approaches and methods for constructing comparative theologies.		

STH TT 930: Modern Western Theology II: 1914 to Present
	A comprehensive introduction to theological figures and themes of the twentieth century in a seminar format. Signficant background in theology is required. Verify prerequisites with professor.		

STH TT 932: Paul Tillich
	Centered on one of the major theological works of the twentieth century, the Systematic Theology, this course is designed to assist students to contextualize, interpret, and analyze the thought of Paul Tillich and to assess its significance for contemporary theology. 		

STH TT 934: Schleiermacher
	The primary aim of this course is read and understand the theology of Friedrich Daniel Ernst  Schleiermacher, one  of the most important and influential European intellectuals of the 19th century, and  known variously as the Father  of Romanticism, the Father of Hermeneutics, the Father of German Plato  studies, the Father of Modern Protestant  Theology, and the Father of Liberal Christian Theology. The  course focuses on The Christian Faith (CF) but also  covers some other of his writings particularly On  Religion: Speeches to Its Cultured Despisers (OR) and Letters  to Locke (LL) and some biographical material.  The secondary aim is to help students develop their own  theological ideas in detailed conversation with  Schleiermacher's, a purpose for which CF is particularly well  suited.  The class has 800-level and 900-level  designations to accommodate both advanced masters and doctoral students,  respectively. 		

STH TT 945: Spirituality, Medicine & Health
	The general aim of this science-religion course is to learn about the complex entanglements among religious traditions and spirituality, medical traditions and healing modalities, and norms for physical and mental health. This will involve (i) in Part 1 of the course, gaining a basic grasp on the history of the medical traditions of China, India, the Middle East, and the West, including the metaphysical frameworks that inform those traditions; (ii) in Part 2 of the course, studying the complex controversy over spirituality and health research and attempting to decide whether and how the efficacy of healing modalities is to be evaluated; (iii) in Part 3 of the course, understanding how western biomedicine interacts with the array of medical traditions and spiritually inspired healing modalities that thrive in the West; and (iv) throughout the course, addressing philosophical, theological, and ethical questions about norms for mental and physical health and comparing metaphysical frameworks for health and healing. The class is intended for advanced masters students and doctoral candidates interested in the science-religion dialogue, and particularly in spirituality and health. 		

STH TT 946: Advanced Systematic Theology I: God and Creation
	A study of creations as the fundamental religious relation between God and the world, defining both.  Develops an adequate Christian theology of God and explores alternate conceptions of God.		

STH TT 947: Advanced Systematic Theology II: The Human Condition
	Study of the theological dimensions of human life, examining the Christian notions of sin and salvation, and some variants and alternatives to these and other religious traditions. Develops a contemporary Christology.		

STH TT 948: Advanced Systematic Theology III: Sanctification and Religious Life
	Study of both personal and communal dimensions of the religious life. Examines the church and the religious practices of ritual, symbol making, and paths of spiritual perfection. Develops a systematic doctrine of the Holy Spirit and the church.		

STH TT 949: Hermeneutics for Teaching and Preaching
	The purpose of this course is to hone skills at the doctoral level in various tasks of hermeneutics (fancy  word for interpretation) necessary for preaching and religious education.  Religious life has both ultimate  predicaments and ultimate ecstatic fulfillments.  These can be sorted roughly into five basic problematics  that take various forms in nearly all religions, although this course will focus on Christianity with some  informal treatments of other religions.  These problematics are (1) living under obligation, with issues of  righteousness, discernment of justice and morality, guilt, and forgiveness, (2) the quest for personal  wholeness, with issues of suffering, brokenness, dignity, and sanctification, (3) the engagement of others,  with issues of ingroup/outgroup distinctions, loving enemies, loving in different ways, and loving nature,  (4) the attainment of a value-identity in ultimate perspective, with issues of the meaning of life and coping  with finitude and ambiguity, and (5) gratitude for sheer existence, with issues of radical contingency,  affirmation of life and death, and union with and distance from God.  Each of these problematics singly and  in combination with others has been called "salvation," but the complexity of religion requires that they be  thought together and each one interpreted to the others. The four domains of hermeneutics (scripture,  experience, tradition, and reason) will be explored through the grid of these five religious problematics. 		

STH TT 954: Scientific Approaches to Religion
	This seminar examines interpretations of religious beliefs, behaviors, and experiences deriving from the  biological, evolutionary, psychological, cognitive, neurological, and medical sciences.		

STH TT 961: Varieties of Religious Naturalism
	The aim of this course is learn about varieties of religious naturalism and how they have been, and can be,  incorporated into philosophical and theological reflection. The seminar will read a variety of works in  contemporary religious naturalism, from twentieth-century classics to current contributions, and from  theoretical analyses of the meaning of naturalism to surveys attempting to map out the territory of  plausible viewpoints. We will also track the close relationship between religious naturalism and both  ecologically-rooted forms of spirituality and nature-centered forms of mysticism.		

STH TT 966: Fem/Womani Theo
			

STH TT 974: Religious Experience
	This seminar is a multidisciplinary study of religious experience, drawing on  philosophy, theology, literature, psychology, sociology, the cognitive sciences,  and the neurosciences. An advanced research seminar, this course presumes  significant background knowledge in theology and philosophy and is designed for  doctoral students. Advanced master's students can participate with the  permission of the instructor. 		

STH TT 998: Theology and Trauma
	This course aims to bring the recent studies in the interdisciplinary study of trauma to bear on the field  of theology. What unique challenges does the phenomenon of trauma pose to contemporary theology?  The first part of the course explores recent studies in trauma, focusing on three areas of research: 1)  neurobiology of trauma, 2) clinical/therapeutic studies, and 3) literary approaches to trauma. The  second part of the course examines theological engagements with issues of radical suffering. The third  part brings together the insights from the first two and focuses on the question of what it means to  witness theologically to individual, societal, and global trauma. We will look at issues and contexts such  as the criminal justice system, war, poverty, and racism. In this final part, students will be working  towards constructive theological engagements with issues of trauma through interaction with a variety  of mediums: art, literature, spiritual practices, and film. The course is not a counseling course. It aims to  provide rich theological reflection around issues of suffering, violence, and trauma, both individual and  global.		

STH TY 704: Introduction to Pastoral Care and Counseling
	This course introduces a method of pastoral care as practical theology. Students will learn to assess the  experiences of loss, violence, and addiction reflected in pastoral care conversations. They will use  theological, psychological, and cultural studies to reflect upon these issues of loss or violence, and develop  theologically based strategies of care and justice. 		

STH TY 803: The Psychology of Religion
	Examining methodological questions and issues in the psychological interpretation  of religious matters by  considering what is meant by 'religion' and what is  involved in interpreting 'religion' psychologically. 		

STH TY 806: Theories of Human Development
	Human Development Course Description: The goal of this course is to achieve an  understanding of the  human developmental process and how that process integrates  the growth of faith and the life of the  community.  We will use a series of  theoretical readings, broader lectures by the professor, and selected   autobiographies to apply theory.  As our experiences provide excellent  laboratory data, there will be  various opportunities to examine our own life  processes as a way of seeing theory in action.  Course  Objectives: By the end of  the class, students should: - know the primary developmental theories, including   psychodynamic, cognitive, behavioral, social learning, faith development and be  able to identity of variety  of lesser used theories - be able to critique  developmental theories using the insights of feminist theory,  studies in racism  and sexual identity, and the reality of globalization - be able to apply theory  to case  material - discuss the relationship of human development and community  context  		

STH TY 811: Object Relations and the Study of Religion
	Achieving familiarity with and fluency in a series of psychoanalytic theories of  personality/character, development, relationships, motivation, health, and  pathology, as a context in which to practice psychoanalytic interpretations of  religious matters.		

STH TY 814: Womanist Psychologies of Religion
	This seminar course will "engage womanist theology and ethics, womanist pastoral and practical  theology for their embedded psychologies of religion. We will examine psychological aspects of Black  women's religious experience in the U.S. Of particular interest will be the place, relationship and  significance of black religious experience as a particular(ized) cultural psychological construction and  experience. Additionally, we will take up for consideration the theological basis for articulating a  womanist psychology of religion, and the argument that womanist epistemology, theological  anthropology as well as practical and pastoral theologies are embedded in psychological dynamics and  require an explicit articulation of a (psychoanalytic) psychology of religion. 		

STH TY 821: Psychoanalysis of/and Spirituality
	Examines the growing engagement between psychoanalysis and spirituality. Historically this has been contested ground with psychoanalytic theorists having little regard for religion and spirituality beyond the realm of a psychological interpretation.  Over the last two decades, this has shifted and a number of works have been either written about psychoanalysis as spirituality; psychoanalyst's spiritual practices, and/or psychoanalysis of spirituality.  The emphasis of these conversations has resulted in conferences dedicated to the topic as well as psychoanalysts specializing in spirituality.  The impact on studies in spirituality has produced a more conscious interest in the relevance of psychodynamic perspectives of spirituality and spiritual direction.  This course takes these shifts up while resisting the temptation to collapse the distinctions.		

STH TY 826: Psychodynamics of Marriage and Family
	This is an introductory course that includes a comprehensive overview of the  field of family systems and  family therapy. This course will serve as an  introduction to the theory and techniques of couples and  family therapy. An  attempt will be made to integrate theory and practice through assignments, class   activities, and personal and professional self-reflection. Students will have  the opportunity to reflect upon  how they might actually use course content  professionally in their respective disciplines.		

STH TY 828: Womanist Approaches to Religion
	This course will provide students an opportunity to think about how womanist scholars approach the study   of religion and black women's religious experience. We will take up for examination the questions: "what   do womanist scholars mean by womanist approaches to religion?" And, "what constitutes religion and   religious experience?" The course is interdisciplinary and interfaith in its consideration of religion. Students   will be introduced to the methods, aims, approaches, sources and disciplinary locations of womanist   scholarship on religion. Particular attention will be given to the widening scope of womanist research on   religion interms of methodology and religions. The class will engage our concerns through lecture,   discussion and site observations.		

STH TY 842: Pastoral Psychology of Healing
	Every person, in her or his personal relationships and professional activities,  is guided by a complex, often tacit, theory of healing, comprised of judgments  about illness/suffering (what's wrong?); health/well-being (what's possible?  what's ideal?); the trajectory from one to the other (how do we get there?); and  factors that enhance as well as inhibit movement along that trajectory (what  should we do?).  Examining and comparing a range of theories of healing--in  psychology, medicine, Christian traditions, world religions, and non-Western  cultures--equips us critically to reflect upon, amend, if not reconstruct our  respective theories of healing..		

STH TY 854: Pastoral Theology and Psychology
	Practical theologians, pastoral theologians, and pastoral psychologists focus on different subject matters, use different methods, and address different audiences. Nonetheless, they share a common purpose: to diagnose, accurately and in-depth, concrete problems of the human condition (e.g., suffering, evil) and, correspondingly, to construct effective ways of addressing those problems (i.e., forms of intervention, strategies of care). This is a reading course that examines contributions of theologians, practical theologians, pastoral theologians, and pastoral psychologists, and provides a context in which students may investigate research problems that are especially relevant to their respective communities and traditions, as well as their particular vocational objectives (e.g., parish ministry, chaplaincy, pastoral care, seminary teaching). 		

STH TY 855: Pastoral Care, Community Justice and Feminist Ethics
	Two questions that undergird this course is 1)"what is the relationship between pastoral care and justice  in and for the broader community?" and 2) "what do diverse feminist ethical and theological perspectives  contribute this prior question?"  These questions will guide us throughout the semester as we 1) read  diverse perspectives on pastoral care and community justice; 2) visit ministry sites that seek to respond  to various forms of structural, i.e. economic, healthcare; gendered, ethnicity/racial, sexuality, prison,  etc. forms of injustices that impact specific communities; 3) articulate pastoral theologies of care that  explicit integrate ethical commitments to justice and responsible pastoral action; 4) explore the  difference that difference makes in the texts (human narratives as well as those written); 5) interrogate  the exercise of power in unjust social, religious and structural practices and in justice oriented practices  of care.		

STH TY 857: African American Pastoral Theology
	In this course we will give our attention to the content of African American Pastoral and Practical  Theologies as well as the pastoral practices that emerge from their methods, aims, sources and critiques.   In other words, we want to understand what this contextually based theology means for pastoral leadership  in black contexts.  Specifically, this course privileges African American experience, religion, spirituality and  modes of care.  Finally this course will reconsider what we mean by "African American Pastoral Theology  and Practical Theology" as well as the category "black religion" by widening the scope of where we look for  African American pastoral contexts. That is, we will include the experiences and voices of those outside the  historical black church congregation.  In doing so, we will consider the question "does African American  Pastoral theology have currency beyond the black Christian context?"		

STH TY 864: Pastoral Psychology: The Self
	Formulating a model of self that takes into account matters of religion, faith,  and spirituality;    acknowledges the influence of culture, race, ethnicity, class,  and gender; and coordinates the    contributions of various traditions of inquiry. 		

STH TY 870: Pastoral Psychology of Groups
	This course has as its first focus the examination of the kinds of psychodynamics that are a part of group  life, and the implications of these dynamics for participation in, working with, and serving in  pastoral/religious leadership roles with groups in a variety of settings.  This course will introduce students  to the conscious and unconscious dynamics of group life, and therefore, will be concerned with the  transference, countertransference, projection, group identity, and formation, etc.  Additionally, the course  will examine the relationship of race/ethnicity, culture, gender, class and sexuality as embedded and  integral facets of the psychodynamics that shape group processes. Toward these ends, we will engage  psychodynamic theories and concepts concerning the functioning of groups from pastoral psychoanalytic  group perspectives, and consider what they might offer in the service of pastoral practice. Students will  learn experientially about group processes by participating in a small group comprised of members of the  class.  		

STH TY 901: Professional Seminar in Counseling Psychology and Religion
	This two-credit graduate level seminar will cover significant issues in the field of Counseling Psychology    and Religion.  Emphasis will be on discussion of the issues raised by the presenters and the readings    assigned.  The course is designed to create a greater sense of community and connection among    Counseling Psychology faculty and students throughout the university and to increase socialization into the    professional aspects of being a Counseling Psychologist.		

STH TY 903: The Psychology of Religion
	Examining methodological questions and issues in the psychological interpretation  of religious matters by  considering what is meant by 'religion' and what is  involved in interpreting 'religion' psychologically. 		

STH TY 906: Human Development
	Human Development Course Description: The goal of this course is to achieve an  understanding of the  human developmental process and how that process integrates  the growth of faith and the life of the  community.  We will use a series of  theoretical readings, broader lectures by the professor, and selected   autobiographies to apply theory.  As our experiences provide excellent  laboratory data, there will be  various opportunities to examine our own life  processes as a way of seeing theory in action.  Course  Objectives: By the end of  the class, students should: - know the primary developmental theories, including   psychodynamic, cognitive, behavioral, social learning, faith development and be  able to identity of variety  of lesser used theories - be able to critique  developmental theories using the insights of feminist theory,  studies in racism  and sexual identity, and the reality of globalization - be able to apply theory  to case  material - discuss the relationship of human development and community  context  		

STH TY 911: Object Relations Theory for Pastoral Relationships
	Achieving familiarity with and fluency in a series of psychoanalytic theories of  personality/character, development, relationships, motivation, health, and  pathology, as a context in which to practice psychoanalytic interpretations of  religious matters. 		

STH TY 926: Psychodynamics of Marriage and Family
	This course includes a comprehensive overview of the field of family systems and family therapy. It will  serve as an introduction to the theory and techniques of couples and family therapy. An attempt will be  made to integrate theory and practice through assignments, class activities, and personal and professional  self-reflection. Students will have the opportunity to reflect upon how they might actually use course  content professionaly in their respective disciplines.		

STH TY 946: Ethics and Research in Psychology of Religion and Pastoral Psychology
	Review of ethical issues in the field as well as present and potential research in psychology of religion and pastoral psychology.		

STH TY 948: Pastoral Psychotherapy
	Goals, methods, and process of psychotherapy as a form of ministry. Theological, psychological, and ethical issues in the theory and practice of pastoral counseling and pastoral psychotherapy. Weekly case conference included. 		

STH TY 956: Near History of Psychology and Counseling Psychology
	A history of psychology as a science will be studied and discussed in terms of methods used in study of religion, theology and social sciences (including pastoral theology and psychology of religion).		

STH TY 964: Pastoral Psychology: The Self
	Formulating a model of self that takes into account matters of religion, faith,  and spirituality;    acknowledges the influence of culture, race, ethnicity, class,  and gender; and coordinates the    contributions of various traditions of inquiry. 		

STH TZ 802: Social Science Approaches to Religion
	Introduces major theoretical questions in the social scientific study of religion. Examines approaches of  Marx, Durkheim, and Freud among others.		

STH TZ 803: Humanities Approaches to Religion
	Introduces major theoretical questions in the humanistic study of religion.  Examines the nature of religion    as well as definitions and critiques of religion from comparative, historical, sociological, literary    standpoints as well as postmodern and gender studies approaches.		

STH TZ 911: Doctoral Research Internship
	All ThD and PhD students at STH are asked to fulfill a 180-hour research  internship, and this can be fulfilled in any year of the doctoral program but  normally prior to any teaching internships. The research internship affords the  student a close mentoring relationship with a faculty member. The student is  expected to provide research assistance to the faculty member while becoming  apprenticed into the life and work of a teacher/researcher.		

STH TZ 912: Doctoral Junior Teaching Internship
	All ThD and PhD students at STH are asked to fulfill a 180-hour Junior Teaching  Internship, which involves assisting a faculty member in the design and teaching  of a course, including the possibility of leading discussion sections, grading,  or even giving one or two lectures. All teaching internships will normally be  offered only in the second and subsequent years of a student's doctoral program.		

STH TZ 913: Doctoral Senior Teaching Internship
	All ThD and PhD students at STH are asked to fulfill a 225-hour Senior Teaching  Internship that involves greater responsibility for course design and teaching  and comes closer to a co-teaching model. May only be taken after TZ912.		

