GRS ES 963: Ds Seismology
			

GRS ES 964: Ds Seismology
			

GRS ES 971: Geochemistry
			

GRS ES 972: Geochemistry
			

GRS GE 600: Environment and Development: A Political Ecology Approach
	Theory and practice of development with an explicit focus on environmental issues. Introduces history of   development and the environment; explores select themes in development and environmental studies (e.g.   rural livelihoods, conservation, urbanization, and climate change); and considers alternative development   paradigms.		

GRS GE 620: Methods of Environmental Policy Analysis
		Introduction to the analysis of environmental policy, the implications of environmental problems for public decision making, the tools available to decision-makers, and their effectiveness, advantages, and disadvantages.		

GRS GE 625: United States Environmental Policy
	Survey and historical overview of key environmental policies and regulations in the United States. Emphasis  on policy development, including formulation and implementation of federal pollution control regulations  since the National Environmental Policy Act of 1970. Considers possible future policy needs.		

GRS GE 640: Digital Image Processing - Remote Sensing
		At least introductory statistics (and preferable multivariate statistics) recommended.  This course pursues both the algorithms involved in processing remote sensing images and their application.  Topics include preprocessing, image transformations, image classification and segmentation, spectral mixture analysis, and change detection.  Examples cover a wide range of environmental applications of remote sensing.  Students do a project		

GRS GE 645: Physical Models in Remote Sensing
		Devoted to understanding the physical processes involved in remote sensing.  Emphasis based on topics of radiative transfer in the atmosphere, at the surface, and in sensors.  Reflectance modeling, advanced sensor systems, and geometric effects.  A short research paper is required.		

GRS GE 656: Terrestrial Ecosystems and the Carbon Cycle
           			Explores the past, present, and possible future dynamics of the terrestrial carbon cycle. Key topics include the physical climate system, variability, ecosystem processes, land use issues, and impacts of global change on society.		

GRS GE 660: Resource Economics and Policy
		Economic analysis of environmental resources and policies for their management. Introduces dynamic optimization as a tool for understanding and analyzing both resource scarcity and the management of energy, fishery, and forestry resources for sustainability.		

GRS GE 675: Urban Ecology
           			The biophysical environments and ecology of urban settlements. Key topics include the physical   environment, patterns in human population growth and development, ecosystem structure and function,   global change, urban environment pollution and management, and sustainable urban development. Also  offered as GRS BI 675.		

GRS GE 683: Geodynamics II: Fluids and Fluid Transport
		Large and small scale phenomena in oceanic, atmospheric, and land surface fluids.  Properties of gases  and liquids; surface body forces; statics; flow analysis; continuity and momentum conservation. Darcy's  Law; potential, open channel geostraphic flow; dimensional analysis; diffusic turbulence.		

GRS GE 699: Teachng Coll Gg
			

GRS GE 700: Research Methods in Human-Environment Interactions
	Introduces qualitative methods used to study human-environment interactions. Stimulates critical thinking   about the research process and the particular issues of human-environment relations:  how we "know,"   matching methods and questions, ethical issues, and dissemination of results. Also offered as GRS AN 700.		

GRS GE 712: Reg Enrgy Model
			

GRS GE 715: Global Change Initiative: Education and Research
           			Interdisciplinary perspectives on global change issues, combined with focus on how to develop effective classroom lessons to address these issues. GLACIER fellows are assigned readings from various disciplines and perspectives on global change and required to develop lesson plans.		

GRS GE 719: Colloquium in Terrestrial Biogeoscience
		Introduction to the field of Terrestrial Biogeoscience through weekly research presentations and  discussions with GRS faculty and distinguished guests. Students also meet weekly with lead faculty member to discuss primary literature related to each presentation. Also offered as GRS BI 719 and GRS ES 719.		

GRS GE 720: Practicum in Terrestrial Biogeoscience
		Analysis and synthesis of the primary literature via in-depth case studies in terrestrial biogeoscience. Students meet weekly with faculty to read papers from the primary literature, synthesize results, and  prepare a peer-review quality paper on the case study. Also offered as GRS BI 720 and GRS ES 720.		

GRS GE 794: Current Issues in Environmental Affairs
	Explores key concepts related to regimes and environmental diplomacy with a focus on a selected set of contemporary issues in international affairs.  Fosters research on the negotiation and implementation of environmental treaties.		

