GRS MA 977: Directed Study: Partial Differential Equations
			

GRS MA 978: Directed Study: Partial Differential Equations
			

GRS MA 979: Directed Study: Probability
			

GRS MA 980: Directed Study: Probability
			

GRS MB 697: A Bridge to Knowledge: A Practical Seminar for First-Year Graduate Students in Biology
           			A seminar for first-year biology and MCBB graduate students. Basic pedagogical theory and professional  development topics are covered. The course is intended to help students become effective teachers and  members of the graduate community. Also offered as GRS BI 697.		

GRS MB 721: Grad Biochem
			

GRS MB 722: Adv Biochem
			

GRS MB 907: Mcbb Research
			

GRS MB 908: Mcbb Research
			

GRS NE 800: Methods in Neuroscience
	Research experiences directed by GPN faculty for first-year graduate students. Mentors who have funded research projects provide students with a large number of potential laboratories from which to choose where they will conduct their thesis research.		

GRS NE 801: Methods in Neuroscience
	Research experiences directed by GPN faculty for first-year graduate students. Mentors who have funded research projects provide students with a large number of potential laboratories from which to choose where they will conduct their thesis research.		

GRS NE 901: Directed Study in Neuroscience
           			For doctoral students in the Program in Neuroscience. Dissertation research under the guidance of a Neuroscience faculty member.  		

GRS NE 902: Directed Study in Neuroscience
           			For doctoral students in the Program in Neuroscience. Dissertation research under the guidance of a Neuroscience faculty member.  		

GRS PH 603: Plato I
	A careful study of one or several Platonic dialogues. Emphasizes both close reading of the text(s) and discussion of the deep philosophical issues raised by them. Frequent references to other Platonic dialogues as relevant. Knowledge of Greek is helpful but not required. Familiarity with Greek philosophy is helpful.		

GRS PH 605: Aristotle I
	A careful study of Aristotle's theoretical philosophy conducted through a close reading of selections from  the Categories, Posterior Analytics, Physics, On the Soul, and the Metaphysics.		

GRS PH 606: Aristotle II
	A close reading of Aristotle's writings on practical philosophy (i.e., the Nicomachean Ethics and the Politics)  and of his philosophy of art in the Poetics, focusing on the nature of human happiness and the good life,  the question of the best form of political government, and the function of art for life.		

GRS PH 609: Maimonides
	A study of major aspects of the thought of Maimonides. Primary focus on the Guide of the Perplexed, with attention to its modern reception in works by Baruch Spinoza, Hermann Cohen, Leo Strauss, and others. Also offered as GRS RN 720.		

GRS PH 610: Continental Rationalism
	A critical study of major texts of seventeenth-century philosophy.		

GRS PH 611: British Empiricism
	A critical study of major texts of British Empiricists, with emphasis on Locke and Hume. 		

GRS PH 612: Philosophy of the Enlightenment
	A critical examination of that family of philosophical and political movements that called itself "the  Enlightenment." Students analyze key texts by Descartes, Hobbes, Locke, Smith, Rousseau, Voltaire,  Diderot, Jefferson, Madison, Kant, and Hegel.		

