GRS AA 716: African Diaspora Arts in the Americas
		Study of the transmission of African artistry in the Caribbean, South America, and the  United States from  the period of slavery to the present. Topics include Kongo and Yoruba  arts and their influence on the arts  of Santeria, Vodun, and carnival. Also offered as GRS AH 716.		

GRS AA 808: Seminar:  Ethnic, Race, and Minority Relations
           			Formation and position of ethnic minorities in the United States, including cross-group comparisons from England, Africa, and other parts of the world.  Readings and field experience. Also offered as GRS SO 808. 		

GRS AA 871: African American History
           			The history of African Americans from African origins to the present; consideration of slavery, reconstruction, and ethnic relations from the colonial era to our own time.  Also offered as GRS HI 871. 		

GRS AA 882: History of Religion in Pre-Colonial Africa
	The study of the development of religious traditions in Africa during the period prior to European  colonialism. An emphasis on both indigenous religions and the growth and spread of Judaism, Christianity,  and Islam in the continent as a whole. Also offered as GRS HI 749 and GRS RN 682.		

GRS AA 885: Atlantic History
	Examines the various interactions that shaped the Atlantic World, connecting Europe, Africa, and the  Americas between 1400 and 1800. Begins by defining the political interaction, then emphasizes cultural  exchange, religious conversion, and the revolutionary era. Also offered as GRS HI 750. 		

GRS AA 888: Black Radical Thought
	Black radical thought in America, Europe, and Africa since the eighteenth century through writings of abolitionists, leaders of revolutions and liberation movements, Black nationalists, and Black socialists. Emphasizes the global nature of the "Black World" and its role in world history. Also offered as GRS HI 761.		

GRS AA 901: Directed Study in African American Studies
				

GRS AA 902: Directed Study in African American Studies
				

GRS AH 713: Imperial Reflections: Early Modern Islamic Art and Architecture
	Architecture, manuscripts, textiles, metalwork, and ceramics of the Mughal, Ottoman, and Safavid Empires. Focus on the formation of imperial styles, intersections between art and politics, and the importance of the arts in dynastic legitimization.		

GRS AH 716: African Diaspora Arts in the Americas
		Study of the transmission of African artistry in the Caribbean, South America, and the  United States from  the period of slavery to the present. Topics include Kongo and Yoruba  arts and their influence on the arts  of Santeria, Vodun, and carnival. Also offered as GRS AA 716.		

GRS AH 726: Colloquium in Japanese Art
	The arts of Japan from prehistory through the twentieth century. Painting, calligraphy, sculpture, and architecture (including landscape architecture) are emphasized, but attention is also paid to wood block prints, ceramics, lacquer, and metalwork. 		

GRS AH 731: Arts of Archaic Greece
	This colloquium (paired with CAS AH 331) considers special topics in Greek Archaic art.		

GRS AH 742: Colloquium in Latin American Art
	Case studies designed to explore the main aesthetic, social, and historical discourses surrounding image  production in Latin America while familiarizing students with main scholars in the field and their  methodologies.		

GRS AH 777: Housing America
	What do dwellings say about the diversity of American experience? For over four centuries and across a  continent, wealth and poverty, family and community, taste and technology have all shaped the meaning of  home. Illustrated lecturers supplemented by field trips. Also offered as GRS AM 776.		

GRS AH 782: Colloquium in Nineteenth-Century Architecture in Europe and America
	Dilemma of style in nineteenth-century architecture; study of the relationship of architectural theory to the changing philosophy and aesthetic theory of the period. Development of functionalist theory.		

GRS AH 786: Colloquium in Twentieth-Century American Painting
	The colloquium, which accompanies the lecture course for CAS AH 386, focuses on critical and theoretical readings that relate to twentieth-century American painting, photography, sculpture, installation and performance art, and criticism.		

GRS AH 798: Colloquium in Twentieth-Century Architecture
	In conjunction with the CAS AH 398 lecture course, this colloquium focuses on main figures, events, artifacts of twentieth-century architectural history.		

GRS AH 812: Seminar: Portraiture
	Topic for Fall 2012: Portraiture from 1300-1600. Topics include the influence of ancient art and literature,  tropes of animation (especially the "speaking portrait"), the visualization of identity, and the relationship  between biography and art history.		

GRS AH 820: Seminar: Asian Art
           			Topic for Fall 2014: Kyoto: Art, Architecture, and Urbanism. This seminar explores the art, architecture,  and urbanism of Kyoto, the Japanese imperial capital from the late eighth century to the mid-nineteenth  century. Analyzes major artistic and architectural projects sponsored by generations of emperors,  aristocrats and warriors.		

GRS AH 822: Seminar: African Art
		In-depth discussion of special topics in the study of African art and architecture. Topic for Fall 2013: Post- Colonial Theory and Visual Culture in Northwestern Africa. This seminar underscores the continuing  importance of post-colonial theory to understanding the history of African art, concentrating on historic  and contemporary visual culture in Morocco, Algeria, Senegal, Mali, and Niger. 		

