CAS AS 312: Stellar and Galactic Astrophysics
           			Basic physics of radiation; spectral analysis; distances, motions, and physical properties of stars; stellar interiors and atmospheres; stellar evolution; clusters of stars; the interstellar medium; content, structure, and rotation of the Milky Way galaxy. 		

CAS AS 401: Senior Distinction Work
           					

CAS AS 402: Senior Distinction Work
           					

CAS AS 413: Extragalactic Astrophysics and Cosmology
           			Galaxies and galaxy clusters; the extragalactic distance scale and Hubble's Law; quasars and active galactic  nuclei; metrics and general relativity; distances and luminosities in cosmology. Origin of the universe: the  Big Bang, cosmic background radiation, and inflation. (Offered alternate years.)		

CAS AS 414: Solar and Space Physics
           			The Sun and Solar Wind: solar magnetic fields, sunspot cycle, active sun, corona. Interaction of the solar wind with planets and comets. Planetary Magnetospheres and Ionospheres. Aeronomy. Solar System plasma physics. Magnetic Storms and Space Weather. 		

CAS AS 441: Observational Astronomy
           			Astronomical techniques. Photometry, spectroscopy, photography, CCD imaging, and interferometry.  Statistical methods for data reduction and analysis. Strong laboratory component. Use of computers.		

CAS AS 491: Directed Studies in Astronomy
           			Devoted to an intensive study of a particular aspect of astronomy, often working with a member of the faculty on a specific research project. 		

CAS AS 492: Directed Studies in Astronomy
           			Devoted to an intensive study of a particular aspect of astronomy, often working with a member of the faculty on a specific research project. 		

CAS BB 191: Undergraduate Research in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology I
           			Laboratory research under the supervision of a faculty member. Minimum of six hours per week in the lab, not including preparation and evaluation. This course cannot be used for BMB major credit. No  more than 12 credits of undergraduate research may be counted toward the 32 courses required for graduation from CAS.		

CAS BB 192: Undergraduate Research in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology I
           			Laboratory research under the supervision of a faculty member. Minimum of six hours per week in the lab, not including preparation and evaluation. This course cannot be used for BMB major credit. No  more than 12 credits of undergraduate research may be counted toward the 32 courses required for graduation from CAS.		

CAS BB 291: Undergraduate Research in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology II
           			Laboratory research under the supervision of a faculty member. Minimum of six hours per week in the lab, not including preparation and evaluation. This course cannot be used for BMB major credit. No  more than 12 credits of undergraduate research may be counted toward the 32 courses required for graduation from CAS.		

CAS BB 292: Undergraduate Research in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology II
           			Laboratory research under the supervision of a faculty member. Minimum of six hours per week in the lab, not including preparation and evaluation. This course cannot be used for BMB major credit. No  more than 12 credits of undergraduate research may be counted toward the 32 courses required for graduation from CAS.		

CAS BB 391: Undergraduate Research in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology III
           			Laboratory research under the supervision of a faculty member. Minimum of three hours per week per  credit in the lab, not including preparation and evaluation. A maximum of 4 credits earned in  undergraduate  research courses may be counted toward the BMB major. No more than 12 credits of  undergraduate research may be counted toward the 32 courses required for graduation from CAS.		

CAS BB 392: Undergraduate Research in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology III
           			Laboratory research under the supervision of a faculty member.Minimum of three hours per week per  credit  in the lab, not including preparation and evaluation. A maximum of 4 credits earned in  undergraduate  research courses may be counted toward the BMB major. No more than 12 credits of   undergraduate research may be counted toward the 32 courses required for graduation from CAS.		

CAS BB 401: Honors Research in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
           			Independent laboratory research under the supervision of a faculty member. Minimum of 12 hours per  week in the lab, not including preparation and evaluation. Course grade is determined by laboratory  performance, oral presentation, written thesis, and defense of the thesis  before a committee of three  BMB faculty members. Successful completion of both CAS BB 401 and BB 402 may lead to a degree with  honors in the major, although only 4 of the credits may count toward the BMB major. No more than 12  credits of undergraduate research may be counted toward the 32 courses required for graduation from  CAS.		

CAS BB 402: Honors Research in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
           			Independent laboratory research under the supervision of a faculty member. Minimum of 12 hours per  week in the lab, not including preparation and evaluation. Course grade is determined by laboratory  performance, oral presentation, written thesis, and defense of the thesis  before a committee of three  BMB faculty members. Successful completion of both CAS BB 401 and BB 402 may lead to a degree with  honors in the major, although only 4 of the credits may count toward the BMB major. Students must also  present a research talk at the BMB symposium at the end of the  Spring semester of the academic year.  No more than 12 credits of undergraduate research may be  counted toward the 32 courses required for  graduation from CAS.		

