CAS PO 308: The Politics of Race and Ethnicity
	Definitional hypotheses of race and ethnicity based on cultural, sociological, and biological determinants tested against concrete examples of plural societies in Africa, Europe, Asia, and the Americas. Correlations  between racial/ethnic differentiation and sociopolitical stratification and cleavages examined. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 351.		

CAS PO 309: Women and Politics
           			(Meets with CAS WS 350.) Readings, discussion, and field research on issues of women's relationship to  the processes of political influence, change, and empowerment. Analysis of public policy related to women and children. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was  previously numbered CAS PO 342.		

CAS PO 313: The Politics and Policy of HBO's The Wire
	HBO's television series The Wire is used to explore politics and policy. A number of interdisciplinary topics  are covered, including the war on drugs, urban elections, bureaucracy, rational choice theory, and the  decline of American cities.		

CAS PO 321: Foundations of American Public Policy
	Investigates the social and political roots of U.S. policy solutions.  Cross-national comparisons and   historical perspectives are used to shed light on seemingly unique American solutions to pressing social  and economic problems. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same  title that was previously numbered CAS PO 343.		

CAS PO 324: Comparative Public Policy
           			Meets with CAS IR 340. Comparative study of the public policies of advanced societies in such areas as health training, unemployment, poverty, and budget.  Explores why countries develop different solutions to policy needs, and evaluates the strengths and weaknesses of various national approaches. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS  PO 341.		

CAS PO 325: Campaigns and Elections Around the World
           			Meets with CAS IR 302. Electoral campaigns in Latin America, Europe, and Asia. Changes in campaigns over   time; role of international political consultants; influence of party systems, electoral systems, campaign   finance regulation, vote buying, and mass media; campaign effects on voting behavior and public opinion.  This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS PO 302.		

CAS PO 327: Non-State Actors in International Relations
	Meets with CAS IR 333. Examines the important role of non-state actors in international relations. Non- state actors include subnational governments, international organizations, multinational corporations,   non-governmental organizations, religious groups, violent groups, for-profit security firms, social  movements, and grassroots organizations. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course  with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 333.		

CAS PO 328: North-South Relations
	Meets with CAS IR 395. Employs a multidisciplinary approach to analyze the relations between the industrialized nations of the  "North" and the developing nations of the "South." Addresses historical and current issues in North-South  relations, including trade, investment, migration, regional economic integration, and the environment. This  course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 352.		

CAS PO 329: International Political Economy
           			Meets with CAS IR 390. Emphasizes the dynamic interaction between politics and economics to  understand and explain historical and contemporary issues in international political economy, including  international monetary, trade, investment, financial, and environmental relations. Considers emerging  challenges and structures in the international political economy. This course cannot be taken for credit  in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 355. 		

CAS PO 331: The Policymaking Process
	An overview of policymaking in the United States and an exploration of the process, including obstacles  faced, of political change. Toward the end of the semester, specific policy areas are analyzed to illustrate  some of the broader topics.		

CAS PO 332: Global Justice
	Charts the historical course of human development and inquires why the quality of life varies so  dramatically in the world today. Geographic, economic, and political factors are explored.		

CAS PO 341: European Politics
	Meets with CAS IR 362. Comparative study of politics in member states of the European Union, with  emphasis on  political development, institutions, major issues in contemporary politics, and the impact  of  European integration. Selective references to original and new member states of the EU.  This course  cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS  PO 361.		

CAS PO 343: Europe and International Relations
	Meets with CAS IR 250. Provides an overview European affairs. Topics include the foreign policies of  European nations, the dynamics of European integration, NATO, international migration and ethnic conflict,  and European relations with the United States, Russia, and neighboring countries. This course cannot be  taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 382.		

CAS PO 344: Comparative Political Development
	How and why politics takes one form or another in different countries and at different points in time are  questions of "political development." Revolutions, constitutions, party systems, different political  identities, and different varieties of capitalism all represent the outcome of historical processes. How  social scientists account for such historical outcomes, with examples from across the world, in  particular Europe, the Americas (including the United States), and Asia. This course cannot be taken for  credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 357.		

CAS PO 350: The Pacific Challenge
	(Meets with CAS IR 275.) The dynamic growth of the Pacific Rim countries poses an impressive array of  challenges for the U.S. and the world. Analyzes Japanese trade and defense policies, the rise of the  "mini-dragons" (Taiwan, South Korea, Hong Kong, and Singapore) and "new mini-dragons" (Indonesia,  Thailand, and Malaysia), "Confucian capitalism," democratization (and its failure in China), and legacies  of the Indochina war. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title  that was previously numbered CAS PO 365.		

CAS PO 351: China: from Revolution to Reform
	(Meets with CAS IR 370.) Explores the economic, political, and social upheavals that followed the Chinese  revolution in 1949 and the cause of subsequent inauguration of reform in the late 1970s. Analyzes the  tensions that brought about the 1989 upheaval in Tiananmen Square, as well as the implications of China's  emergence as an economic power. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the  same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 369.		

CAS PO 352: Rise of China
	(Meets with CAS IR 365.) China's political, economic, and strategic development since the late nineteenth  century, with emphasis on the period since 1949. Examines three questions: In what ways is China rising?  How did it happen? What are the impacts of China's rise on the U.S. and the global system? This course  cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 374.		

CAS PO 355: International Relations of South Asia
	Meets with CAS IR 372. Introduction to South Asia and regional conflict and cooperation. Focus on India,  Pakistan, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Sri Lanka inter-state relations; great power interventions; power  distributions; norms; political, military, and economic conflict and cooperation. This course cannot  be  taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 378.		

CAS PO 356: Nuclear Security
	Meets with CAS IR 353. Provides students with the foundation for understanding nuclear security in the   twenty-first century. Emphasis on the American Cold War experience, the growing threat of nuclear proliferation, the renaissance of civilian nuclear power, safeguards, and nuclear weapons under budget   constraints.		

CAS PO 357: Causes of War and Peace
	Meets with CAS IR 347. War is the most destructive social act in which humanity engages. Why does war  happen?  This question is addressed by focusing on a variety of scholarly explanations. Theoretical  discussions are paired with an examination of historical cases.		

