CAS RN 439: Jewish Bioethics
           			Exploration of Jewish perspectives on life, death and dying, abortion, the new reproductive technologies, organ transplantation and genetic engineering. Examination of the impact of the Nazi doctors, racial hygiene, euthanasia, and genocide on contemporary bioethics.		

CAS RN 452: Topics in Religious Thought
	Topics vary from year to year. Topic for Fall 2014: Happiness, East and West. What is happiness? How can   we achieve a balanced, healthy, fulfilling life? Classical thinkers such as Aristotle, Plato, Chuang Tzu;   Buddhist, Confucian, Epicurean, and Stoic paths; comparison with contemporary studies of happiness. Also  offered as CAS PH 485.		

CAS RN 453: Topics in Religion and Sexuality
	Topic for Fall 2011: The Body and Sexuality in Classical Religious Texts. Treats foundational primary sources in translation on sex and the body in several world religions. Consideration of differences in sources: genre, gender, modern/classical.  Traditions include Greek, Christian, Hindu, Buddhist, Daoist.		

CAS RN 459: Primo Levi Within Holocaust Literature
           			A study of Primo Levi's writings and scientific, theological, and philosophical approaches to the Holocaust. Other theorists (Arendt, Wiesel, Müller-Hill) and other survivors' testimonies (Delbo, Borowski, Fink) are read in conjunction with Levi's works. Also offered as CAS LI 459 and CAS XL 459.		

CAS RN 466: Religion and the Problem of Tolerance
	Explores the religious roots of tolerance as an alternative to secular, more liberal foundations for pluralism. Grapples with the challenge of tolerance to the revealed religions and the ways different societies have met or failed to meet this challenge.		

CAS RN 468: Symbol, Myth, and Rite
	Historical overview of ritual behavior, the role of symbolism in the study of culture, and the narrative quality of worldview and belief. Emphasis on verbal performance and public display events in specific cultural contexts. 		

CAS RN 470: Topics in Medieval Religious Culture
           			Topic for Fall 2013: Christian, Muslim, and Jew: Religion, Community, and Culture in Medieval Spain. Interactions between Muslims, Christians, and Jews in medieval Europe's most religiously diverse region - from the establishment of an Islamic al-Andalus in 711 CE to the final Christian "reconquest" of the  peninsula and expulsion of the Jews in 1492 CE. Also offered as CAS HI 407.		

CAS RN 494: Magical Texts: Literature &amp; Practice
           			An advanced course in the interpretation of ancient magical texts, emphasizing the use of theoretical models (Malinowksi, Tambiah, J.Z. Smith) for understanding a selection of ritual manuals, amulets, binding tablets, and mystical ascent texts from Greco-Roman, Jewish, and Christian antiquity. Also offered as CAS CL 406 B1.		

CAS RN 504: Topics in Religion and the Visual Arts
           			In-depth discussion of special issues in the study of religion and art. May be repeated for credit as topics    change. Also offered as CAS AH  504.		

CAS RN 524: Topics in Religion and Literature
           			Topic for Fall 2014: Apocalypse and Literature. Literary responses to the biblical book of Revelation, from  ancient to modern times.  Systematic analysis of the biblical text. Readings from Dante, Langland, Rabelais,  Blake, Hölderlin, Dostoevsky, García Lorca, Samuel Beckett, and Flannery O'Connor. Reference to artistic  and musical  representations of apocalypse. Also offered as CAS XL 560 A1.		

CAS RN 555: Dante's Hell
	A close reading of one text, Dante Aligheri's Inferno, with attention to its medieval contexts: philosophical,  theological, and historical. Analysis of the poetic means by which Dante represents both human evil and  human hope. Bi-lingual text. Lectures and discussion in English. Also offered as CAS LI 555 and CAS XL  383.		

CAS RN 556: Dante: The Divine Comedy II: Purgatorio and Paradiso
	Focus on the literary, philosophical, and theological ideas Dante uses to represent his experience of  himself and of human nature. Bi-lingual texts. Lectures and discussions in English. Also offered as CAS LI  556 and CAS XL 385.		

CAS RN 561: Religion and International Relations
           			(Meets with CAS IR 561 and CAS PO 589.)  Explores the role of religion in contemporary international  relations in the context of questions about the common core of modernity. Reviews scholarly and policy  literature, and case studies, in order to elucidate religion's intellectual and operational diversity in  international relations.		

CAS RN 563: Muslim Societies: An Interdisciplinary History
           			Examines the states, empires, faiths, and ideologies of the Muslim world over a 1500-year period, including states from North and West Africa, through the Middle East, to Turkey, Iran, and then to Central and Southeast Asia. Also offered as CAS AH 539, HI 596, and RN 563. 		

CAS SO 100: Principles in Sociology
	An introduction to the major theories and basic principles of sociological analysis. Subjects include methods of social research and investigation; role of individuals in groups, organizations, and society; socialization and education; stratification; race and ethnicity; science, culture, and religion; formal and informal organization; and economic and political systems. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS SO 201: Sociological Methods
           			Required of concentrators and minor concentrators. Scientific method, measurement, experimentation, survey research, observational methods, projective techniques, and content analysis. 		

CAS SO 203: Introduction to Sociological Theories
	Required of sociology majors and minors. Theoretical problems in sociology. The works of the three major  founders of the discipline are the focus: Marx, Weber, and Durkheim. In-depth comparisons and contrasts  in respect to themes and approaches are offered.		

CAS SO 205: American Families
	Nature of the American family and its ethnic and class variants. Social changes affecting courtship, mate  selection, sexual behavior, reproduction, marital stability, and divorce through the life cycle. Social policies  affecting family life. Interrelations of family with economy, state, religion, and other institutions. Carries  social science divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS SO 207: Sociology of Race and Ethnicity
	Social definition of race and ethnicity. The adjustment of different ethnic groups and their impact upon   U.S. social life. How prejudice and discrimination create class identities and how caste relations have  affected patterns of integration during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Carries social science  divisional credit in CAS. Also offered as CAS AA 207.		

CAS SO 209: Crime and Delinquency
