CAS PS 231: Physiological Psychology
           			Analysis of the central nervous system: information processing and decision making; emphasis on physiological aspects of perception, attention, learning, and memory. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS PS 234: Psychology of Learning
           			Survey of theory and techniques in learning and their applications in different settings. Topics include   problem solving, memory, reward and punishment, and reinforcement schedules as studied in animals, normal classrooms, and remedial settings. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. Also offered as  CAS NE 234.		

CAS PS 241: Developmental Psychology
           			Students may elect either CAS PS 241 or PS 243, but not both. Critical review of research and theories pertaining to intellectual and social development of infants and children. Role of early experiences and biological factors in later formation of personality, intellectual and motivational behaviors; theories include Erikson, Piaget, and Freud. Term paper may be required. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS PS 243: Life Span Developmental Psychology in Health and Illness
           			Students may elect either CAS PS 241 or PS 243, but not both. Psychological aspects of  human growth, development, and adaptation throughout the life span, with an emphasis  on responses to illness during the various developmental stages. 		

CAS PS 251: Psychology of Personality: Theories and Application
           			Students may elect either CAS PS 251 or PS 252, but not both. The historical development of personality theories and their application to social and clinical concerns are emphasized. Classic theories of personality (e.g., psychoanalytic, behavioral, trait, humanistic, cognitive, and social roles) are explored and evaluated through lectures, readings, case materials, and films. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS PS 261: Social Psychology
           			Provides an understanding of how behavior, feelings, and thoughts of  individuals are influenced and determined by characteristics of the  situation. Topics: attraction, attitudes, prejudice, social roles, aggression,  person perception, and groups. Readings cover theories, experimental  research, and application. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS PS 322: Experimental Psychology: Physiological
           			Laboratory course in physiological psychology. Emphasis on neuroanatomical mechanisms involved in  behavior. Experiments are performed on rodents and resulting data are analyzed. Research reports  required.		

CAS PS 323: Experimental Psychology: Learning
           			Methodology, results, and interpretation of respondent and operant conditioning. Experimental analyses of   selected topics in learning within the context of reinforcement theory. Required reports of instructor- planned and student-planned experiments using a virtual rat. Course includes two hours of lecture and   two hours of laboratory work a week. Also offered as CAS NE 323.		

CAS PS 324: Experimental Psychology: Developmental
           			Human development selected for experimental study; live subjects. Class discussion and practical experience with observational, assessment, and experimental techniques, and review of statistical concepts. Focus varies. Independent research and paper required. Courses include two hours of lecture and two hours of laboratory work a week. Two 2-hour lectures per week. 		

CAS PS 325: Experimental Psychology: Personality
           			Systematic approaches to the study of personality. Experimental and observational investigations of selected aspects of personality. Demonstration of experimental procedures; student participation in laboratory and field studies. Two hours of lecture and two hours of laboratory work a week.		

CAS PS 326: Experimental Psychology: Social
           			Supervised experience in formulating, carrying out, interpreting, and  critically evaluating social-psychological research. Students conduct  research on such topics as attraction, impressions and stereotypes,  helping, aggression, conflict, etc. Variety of research techniques  examined. Two hours of lecture and two hours of laboratory work a week.		

CAS PS 332: Behavioral Medicine
           			Examines applications from the social and behavioral sciences and allied health professions as they are integrated in the practice of traditional medicine. Examples of interventional strategies, treatments, and procedures, including biofeedback and hypnosis.  		

CAS PS 333: Drugs and Behavior
           			Comprehensive survey of drug influences on behavior; introduces a neuroscience approach to behavior.  Several classes of drugs discussed, including abused and addictive substances and psychoactive and therapeutic agents. Also offered as CAS NE 333.		

CAS PS 336: Introduction to Cognitive Psychology
           			Provides an introduction to basic topics and research issues relevant to cognitive psychology. Emphasis placed on understanding how we perceive, attend, and remember information. Related topics include language, problem solving, and intelligence. 		

CAS PS 337: Memory Systems of the Brain
           			Survey of investigations into the brain systems and neurobiological mechanisms of memory. Includes  experimental studies of amnesia in humans and experimental models of amnesia in animals. Focus on  evidence for multiple forms of memory and distinct brain systems that mediate them. Also offered as CAS  NE 337.		

CAS PS 338: Neuropsychology
           			Survey of theoretical aspects and major empirical findings in human neuropsychology, including memory, language, spatial function, attention, emotion, and abstract thought. Emphasis is on the relation between brain disorders (resulting from head injury, stroke, degenerative disease, etc.) and abnormal behavior. Also offered as CAS NE 338.		

