CAS AN 308: Food, Culture, and Society
	Study of foodways, culinary social history, and diet and food ecology with special attention to Asian societies and Boston's food culture. Examines the use of food and cuisine as a focus for identity, national development, and social change. 		

CAS AN 309: Boston: An Ethnographic Approach (area)
	An anthropological study of Boston using the city as a site of recovery and discovery as students develop   ethnographic skills and an understanding of the interplay between geography, history, and demography in   the social mapping of urban spaces.		

CAS AN 310: Studies in North American Ethnography (area)
	A survey including an appreciation of the traditional background and heritage of native North Americans,  and analysis of the history and contact with Europeans and governmental policies, and an examination and  evaluation of the contemporary situation.		

CAS AN 312: Peoples and Cultures of Africa (area)
	Survey of the continent with attention to ethnohistory, traditional cultures, and cultural change.		

CAS AN 314: Cultures of Latin America (area)
	From the effects of European colonization to the causes of transnational migration, anthropologists have  found Latin America a rich place to study key themes for the discipline. Contemporary ethnography is used  to trace the region's contribution to anthropological debates.		

CAS AN 316: Contemporary European Ethnography (area)
           			Approaches Europe and European societies through an exploration of significant social shifts: the creation  of the European Union, the decline of the national welfare state, the rise of regionalist movements, and the  socio-political transformation of post-socialist states. 		

CAS AN 317: Power and Society in the Middle East (area)
	Peoples and cultures of the Middle East from Afghanistan to Morocco and from the Caucasus to Yemen. Focuses on social organization, family structure, the relationship between the sexes, and the development and maintenance of authority.		

CAS AN 318: Southeast Asia: Tradition and Development (area)
	Provides an in-depth introduction to the cultural traditions and contemporary development of Southeast Asia. Examines the contemporary society and culture through the optic of political and cultural history, so as to understand the "imaginative revolutions" that have shaped this region and are transforming it still today.  		

CAS AN 319: Anthropology of Muslim Cultures and Politics (area)
           			Examines Muslim societies' ongoing struggle over the forms and meanings of Muslim culture and politics,  as well as its implications for religious authority, gender ideals, and new notions of citizenship, civil  society, and democracy.  		

CAS AN 320: Women in the Muslim World
	A cross-cultural approach to the diversity and complexity of women's lives in the Muslim world, including  the United States.  Looks at issues such as gender equality, civil society and democracy, sex segregation  and sexual politics, kinship and marriage, and veiling. 		

CAS AN 331: Human Origins
           			Introduction to human paleontology and methods for reconstructing the   ancestry, structure, diet, and behavior of fossil primates and humans.   Survey of primate and hominid fossils, primate comparative anatomy,   radioactive dating, molecular and structural phylogenies, climactic   analyses, and comparative behavioral ecology. 		

CAS AN 334: Evolutionary Psychology
           			Critical analysis of human behavior from an evolutionary perspective. Emphasis placed on viewing humans as products of biological evolution. Topics include evolution of language and intelligence, cultural evolution, sex and reproduction, kinship and family dynamics, cooperation, aggression, warfare, and status.		

CAS AN 335: The Ape Within: Great Apes and the Evolution of Human Behavior
           			Introduction to primate social behavior, focusing on the apes. Examines how great ape behavior helps understand what is unique about human behavior and how we evolved. Topics include diet, social relationships, sexual behavior, aggression, culture,and cognition.		

CAS AN 336: Primate Evolutionary Ecology
           			Introduction to the various theoretical approaches to understanding the evolutionary ecology of wild primates. Topics include functional anatomy, genetic approaches to mating systems, demography, behavioral ecology, community ecology, and conservation.		

CAS AN 337: Creation and Evolution
	A critical survey of the creation/evolution controversy in its historical, scientific, philosophical, and theological contexts from Augustine down to the intelligent-design movement.		

CAS AN 338: Lucy: The Oldest Woman
           			This course brings to life the 3.18 million year-old fossil "Lucy." What was life like for one of our oldest  female ancestors and how do we know? How did she move? What did she eat? Could she talk?		

CAS AN 339: Primate Biomechanics
           			An introduction to the physical principles and anatomies underlying primate behavior, especially locomotion. Topics include mechanics, skeletal anatomy, primate locomotion, and the primate fossil record. Emphasis on bone biology and human bipedalism.		

CAS AN 344: Modern Japanese Society: Family, School, and Workplace (area)
	Approaches contemporary Japanese society through a focus on family, school, and workplace. The readings and lectures treat these institutions historically and in terms of the contexts they provide for the individual. 		

CAS AN 345: Moving Experiences: Cultures of Tourism and Travel
           			The movement of people across national boundaries as a cultural, economic, and  political phenomenon. Examines voluntary border-crossing in its various cultural and historical meanings as well as in the representations of journals and contemporary accounts.		

CAS AN 347: Afghanistan (area)
