CAS PO 562: Political Economy of Latin America
	(Meets with CAS IR 590.) Historical and contemporary issues in Latin American political economy. Uses case  studies and cross-regional comparisons to assess competing explanations. Analyzes the current political  and economic situation facing Latin America in its quest for economic growth and development. This  course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 550.		

CAS PO 564: Latin American Politics
	Meets with CAS IR 567. The nature and evolution of politics in the region, with emphasis on  twentieth-century patterns in specific countries. Considers the physical, historical, social, and  economic constraints that have affected political development and the various explanations  available to advance our understanding. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 567.		

CAS PO 565: U.S.-Latin American Relations
	Meets with CAS IR 568. The international context within which Latin American countries operate, with  primary emphasis on U.S. policy toward the region. Includes historical overview, the policymaking process  itself, and case studies of specific policy issues. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 568.		

CAS PO 566: Conflict and Conflict Resolution in Latin America
           			Meets with CAS IR 411. Examines a range of historical and contemporary conflicts and wars in Latin  America, both internal and regional, examining their causes and consequences, and the most important  factors that explain how they were resolved or why they persist. This course cannot be taken for credit in  addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 411.		

CAS PO 567: Democracy in Latin America and Its Challenges
	 Meets with CAS IR 566. Provides an overview of democracy's achievements and challenges in Latin  America. Draws comparisons between stable and unstable democracies in the region, and analyzes the  reasons for, and implications of, these differences. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 580.		

CAS PO 570: Politics and Society in North Africa and the Middle East
           			Meets with CAS IR 569. An investigation of contemporary North Africa and the Middle East, with  emphasis on current socioeconomic and political trends and tensions. This course cannot be  taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO  560.		

CAS PO 571: Government and Politics of Contemporary Africa
	Meets with CAS IR 534. Analysis of independent black Africa; factors of continuity and change in modern  Africa, problems of political order, ambiguities of independence. Case studies of individual countries  selected for additional emphasis on specific issues and problems of the developing countries. This course  cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS  PO 565.		

CAS PO 575: Decision Making in U.S. Foreign Policy
	Examination of international crises from the perspective of the individual decision maker. Critical  analysis and testing of the theoretical frameworks used to explain how states and statesmen  behave in a crisis situation. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with  the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 576.		

CAS PO 576: The Foreign Policy of the People's Republic of China
	Meets with CAS IR 577. Explores China's perception of its role in the world, its evolution from a regional to  a world power, and its security and economic relationships within the international system. Relationships  with the superpowers, Third World, and world economy, focusing on technology and capital transfers. This  course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS PO 578.		

CAS PO 578: The United States as a World Power
           			Meets with GRS HI 859. The course material is organized along a debate format. Although the course is  primarily concerned with twentieth-century U.S. foreign policy, attention is also given to eighteenth- and  nineteenth-century issues. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same  title that was previously numbered CAS PO 674.		

CAS PO 579: Political Biography
	Political biographies and memoir literature used to evaluate twentieth-century international relations and  statecraft. Topics vary but may include biographical literature related to World War II, the Cold War, and  Third World political leaders. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same  title that was previously numbered CAS PO 676.		

CAS PO 582: North Atlantic/European Security Issues
	Meets with CAS IR 589. Examination of the post Cold War security environment in the North  Atlantic and greater European context. Exploration of threats to security, mechanisms in place  and emerging (NATO, CSCE, CFE, WEU), and challenges posed by changes since fall 1989. This  course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS PO 531.		

CAS PO 583: Gender and War
	(Meets with CAS IR 518 and WS 345.) Examines gender constructions in world politics. Topics include gender biases in international relations theories, female and males roles in war, and rape as an instrument of warfare. Also assesses roles of women as leaders, actors, and objects of foreign policy.  		

CAS PO 586: Science Fiction and World Politics
	Uses science fiction literature as a starting point for an analysis of themes that concern scholars of present  international relations, and those interested in imagining and making alternative political futures. Topics  include causes of war, distribution of wealth and power, and consequences of nationalism. This course  cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS  PO 670.		

CAS PO 589: Religion and International Relations
           			(Meets with CAS IR 561 and CAS RN 561.)  Explores the role of religion in contemporary international  relations in the context of questions about the common core of modernity. Reviews scholarly and policy  literature, and case studies, in order to elucidate religion's intellectual and operational diversity in  international relations.		

CAS PO 591: Seminar in Political Philosophy
           			An in-depth study of a major political philosopher, historical period, or topic in political philosophy. Topic for 2013/2014: TBA. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course by the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 691.		

CAS PO 592: Enlightenment and Its Critics
	Meets with CAS HI 514 and PH 412. Explores how eighteenth-century criticisms of the Enlightenment have  been taken up by twentieth-century thinkers such as Heidegger, Horkheimer, Adorno, Gadamer, and  Foucault; discusses recent defenses of Enlightenment ideals of reason, critique, and autonomy by  Habermas and others.  This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title  that was previously numbered CAS PO 693.		

CAS PS 101: General Psychology
	Basic introduction to field of psychology; topics include theories and findings governing learning, memory, perception, development, personality, social and abnormal psychology. Three hours large lecture and one hour discussion section or three hours of small lecture class with no discussion sections. Requirements vary. Students are required to participate as subjects in psychology studies. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS PS 211: Introduction to Experimental Design in Psychology
           			Introduction to logic and methodology of univariate statistics with relevance to psychology. Topics include descriptive statistics, data representation, statistical inference, probability and significance, correlation and  regression, and non parametric analyses. Does not count toward nine principal course requirement for majors.		

CAS PS 222: Perception and Behavior
           			Why do things look as they do? This question is examined with particular emphasis on experiments that clarify the relative contributions of nature and nurture, and structural and experiential factors. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

