CAS LS 111: First-Semester Spanish
	For students who have never studied Spanish, or by placement test results. Introduction to grammatical structures. Emphasis on aural comprehension, speaking, and pronunciation. Introduction to Hispanic culture. Lab required.		

CAS LS 112: Second-Semester Spanish
           			Completes study of basic grammatical structures. Emphasis on speaking and aural comprehension. Readings on contemporary Hispanic culture. Writing assignments. Lab required.		

CAS LS 123: First-Year Spanish
	For beginners only. Intensive equivalent of one year of college Spanish.		

CAS LS 211: Third-Semester Spanish
           			Completes study of grammatical structures of Spanish. Use of spoken language in conversation. Reading in Hispanic civilization and of contemporary short stories. Writing exercises involving more complex grammatical and syntactical patterns.  		

CAS LS 212: Fourth-Semester Spanish
           			Review of the structures of Spanish. Intensive practice of spoken language. More advanced readings from Hispanic culture. Frequent compositions. Satisfactory completion of CAS LS 212 fulfills the CAS language requirement. 		

CAS LS 222: Fourth-Semester Spanish for Reading
           			Completes intensive review of grammatical structures. Emphasis on sophisticated sentence structures and  the contemporary idiom. Readings include historical texts, representative examples of journalism, and a  short novel. Viewing and discussion of films. Weekly written translations leading to a final project.  (Students intending to take one of the 300-level Spanish Language courses must take LS 212 and not LS  222.)		

CAS LS 306: Translation
           			Not open to students for whom Spanish is a first language. Students may not take CAS LS 306 more than   once for credit. Advanced study of the Spanish language through the translation of written texts. Analysis   of the theory and practice of translation as a catalyst of cultural transfer. Taught in Spanish. Topic for Fall   2014: Techniques of Literary Translation. Practice in the translation--from and into Spanish--of different   forms of literary prose and poetry. Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

CAS LS 307: Literature and the Arts
           			Not open to students for whom Spanish is a first language. Students may not take CAS LS 307 more   than once for credit. Advanced study of the Spanish language through the analysis of literature in its   relations to the arts: music, painting, dance, performance. Four topics are offered Fall 2014. Topic for   Section A1: Performance in the Theater of Everyday Life. Performing in Spanish to help hone   communication skills while consolidating grammar, building vocabulary, and working on pronunciation   and intonation. Topic for Section B1: 'Alma Boricua.' Study of the Puerto Rican experience through   literature, film, music, and dance, from colonial times to the present. Topic for Section C2: Short Stories   from the Hispanic World. The short story as a vehicle of Hispanic culture. Elements and language of   story-telling. Topic for Section D1: Sailing with Darwin to Patagonia and Beyond. Explores Charles   Darwin's discoveries during his voyage to South America in 1831. Using Darwin's diary to map out his   route, the focus is on original works in Spanish written by naturalists, scientists, as well as authors of   fiction. Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

CAS LS 308: Spanish Film and Media
           			Not open to students for whom Spanish is a first language. Students may not take CAS LS 308 more   than once for credit. Advanced study of the Spanish language through the analysis of the film and media   of the Spanish-speaking world: cinema, the internet, and social media. Topic for Fall 2014: The "Road   Movie." Examines how films from Hispanic countries portray quests for change, how many of these trips   lead to cross-cultural (mis)communications, and the universal and culturally specific nature of certain   common themes. Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

CAS LS 309: Composition for Native Speakers of Spanish
           			(This course is open only to native speakers of Spanish and to other students  whose speech is near-native as a result of their have grown up more or less bilingually and/or lived partly in Spanish-speaking settings.) Emphasis on academic Spanish: grammar, vocabulary, idiomatic expressions, short stories, film, oral presentations. 		

CAS LS 310: Spanish for the Professions
           			Not open to students for whom Spanish is a first language. Students may not take CAS LS 310 more than   once for credit. Advanced study of Spanish as used in the professions in the Spanish-speaking world.   Analysis and discussion of intercultural professional communication, acquisition of specialized vocabulary.   Topic for Fall 2014: The Language of Business. Cultural and linguistic competence in business-oriented   settings. Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

CAS LS 350: Introduction to Analysis of Hispanic Texts
           			Development of techniques for reading and interpreting Hispanic literary texts; reading of lyric poetry,  drama, and fictional narrative. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS LS 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LS 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LS 420: Spanish in the United States
           			An ethnographic survey and sociolinguistic analysis of Spanish as spoken in urban areas of the US. Focuses   on issues of language and dialect content, language change, the fraught notion of 'heritage' speakers, and   code-switching as a sociolinguistic phenomenon. Conducted in Spanish. Also offered as CAS LX 420.		

CAS LS 452: Topics in Latin America Literature and Culture
           			Topic for Fall 2014: Tango and Urban Culture. Discussions of stories told by tango about immigration, sex  trade, and sentimental betrayals, from "Guardia Vieja" to electronic compositions; readings of poets and  fiction writers: Cadícamo, Discepolo, Contursi, Manzi, Arlt. Dance through examples.		

CAS LS 454: Survey of Nineteenth and Twentieth Century Spanish Literature
