CAS BI 472: Readings in Biology
           			Intensive library research on a well-defined subject, followed by individual conferences and discussion  with a faculty member. May be taken as preparation for CAS BI 401, 402, 491, and 492. Does not carry  major or minor credit in biology.		

CAS BI 475: Urban Ecology
           			The biophysical environments and ecology of urban settlements. Key topics include the physical   environment, patterns in human population growth and development, ecosystem structure and function,   global change, urban environment pollution and management, and sustainable urban development. Also  offered as CAS GE 475.		

CAS BI 481: Molecular Biology of the Neuron
           			Topics include electrical properties of neurons, a survey of neurotransmitters, molecular structure and  function of receptors, synaptic transmission, intracellular signaling, and the molecular biology of sensory  transduction. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion.  Also offered as CAS NE 481.		

CAS BI 491: Undergraduate Research in Biology IV
           			Research in biological science for students at the senior level. Students design and implement a research project with a faculty member. A minimum of 12 hours per week in lab or field work, not including preparation or evaluation time. Research topic must be defined at the time of registration. Course grade is determined by laboratory performance and written report.		

CAS BI 492: Undergraduate Research in Biology IV
           			Research in biological science for students at the senior level. Students design and implement a research project with a faculty member. A minimum of 12 hours per week in lab or field work, not including preparation or evaluation time. Research topic must be defined at the time of registration. Course grade is to be determined by laboratory performance and written report.		

CAS BI 495: Seminar in Research
           			For research students to consider issues of ethics in science and help develop methods in data gathering, analysis, and presentation of their own research activities. Students analyze research papers, grant proposals, and their own work; a written paper and oral presentation are required. 		

CAS BI 497: Honors in Biology Seminar
           			A 2-credit weekly research seminar for students in the Honors in Biology Program. A minimum grade of B+ and a written assignment based on a research topic in one of the seminars is required to graduate with honors. Juniors enrolled in BI 497 or 498 must have a currents faculty research mentor (See the Biology website or contact the Undergraduate Program Coordinator in the Department of Biology). 		

CAS BI 498: Honors in Biology Seminar
           			A 2-credit weekly research seminar for students in the Honors in Biology Program. A minimum grade of B+  and a written assignment based on a research topic in one of the seminars is required to graduate with  honors. Juniors enrolled in BI 497 or 498 must have a currents faculty research mentor (See the Biology website or contact the Undergraduate Program Coordinator in the Department of Biology).		

CAS BI 503: Symbiosis (EBE)
           			Explores a dominant survival mechanism in the Earth's history. Emphasizes partner integration in cell evolution, metabolic basis of the associations, the ubiquity of such association in all ecosystems, and the study of key symbolic systems on Earth today, including coral reefs, mycorrhizae/plants, and lichens. Three hours lecture. 		

CAS BI 504: Advanced Evolutionary Analysis (EBE)
           			Modern concepts, controversies, and analytical approaches in evolutionary biology. Topics include  adaptation, natural and sexual selection, species and species formation, phylogenetics, origin of  evolutionary novelty, adaptive radiation, basic population and quantitative genetics, development and  evolution. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion.		

CAS BI 506: Phenotypic Plasticity
           			Explores the flexible phenotype as a product of development and target of natural   selection, and addresses the role of plasticity in ecological interactions and evolutionary   diversity.  Topics:  plasticity genetics, evolution, developmental mechanisms, functional   ecology, learning, and diversification of life. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion. 		

CAS BI 508: Behavioral Ecology (EBE)
	Examines the adaptive significance of behavior in an ecological context. Topics include the evolution of social behavior, mating systems, sexual selection, alternative reproductive behaviors, life history strategies, optimal foraging, territoriality, cooperation and conflict, host-parasite co-evolution, the ecology of communication, and comparative analyses.		

CAS BI 513: Genetics Laboratory
           			Genetic techniques such as mutant selection and screening, complementation, mapping, recombinant DNA, and chemical genetic screening are taught using the genetic model systems Escherichia coli, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and Arabidopsis thaliana. Short-term and long-term projects in which students formulate and test hypotheses.		

CAS BI 515: Population Genetics (EBE)
           			Examines the interaction of basic evolutionary processes, including mutation, natural selection, genetic drift, inbreeding, and recombination, in determining the genetic composition of populations. Covers both classic models of the modern evolutionary synthesis and newer approaches based on coalescent theory.		

CAS BI 519: Theoretical Evolutionary Ecology
           			Familiarizes students with the theory of evolutionary ecology. Students gain enough background to read  theoretical evolutionary ecology literature, do simple modeling, and move on to more complex theory. Students gain experience through homework assignments and computer labs.		

CAS BI 520: Sensory Neurobiology
           			A broad survey of sensory system function in model organisms and humans, focusing on fundamental  principles of neural processing. Topics include basic cellular transduction, neural coding, and links  between neural activity and sensory perception. Also offered as CAS  NE 520.		

CAS BI 523: Marine Urban Ecology
