CAS PH 239: Philosophy of Emotion
	We feel emotions throughout our lives, yet they remain mysterious. What is an "emotion"? How do  emotions differ from moods, attitudes, or dispositions? Are some more basic than others? Can they be  assessed ethically? Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course by the same name numbered CAS PH 439. 		

CAS PH 241: Philosophy of Personality
	Consideration of the nature of self-understanding and self-realization. Psychological and philosophical  perspectives on pattern, growth, and maturity in personality. Attention to philosophical issues regarding  emotion in the healthy personality; rationality, freedom, and responsibilty. Carries humanities divisional  credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 242: Philosophy of Human Nature
	Consideration of how questions about human nature receive philosophical formulation through analyzing  depth, courage, authority, intensity, possibility, transcendence, tradition, adventure, unity, sex, struggle,  and peace. Discussion of past and recent work in philosophical anthropology. Carries humanities divisional  credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 244: How Are We To Live? Ethics in Action
	Explores topics in practical ethics, including poverty, the right to healthcare, killing in medicine, killing in  war, capital punishment, the treatment of non-human animals, and the biomedical enhancement of human  capacities and human nature. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 245: Philosophy and Religion
	An introduction to the philosophy of religion, which explores questions such as the existence and nature  of God, God's place in the good life, and the spiritual quest. Both classical and contemporary works are  studied. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 246: Indian Philosophy
           			Indian philosophy in a comparative context, with special emphasis on Hindu nondualism. Carries  humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 247: Introduction to Chinese Philosophy
	An introduction to the Chinese philosophical tradition, including a study of classical   Confucianism,  Buddhism, Taoism, Mohism, Legalism, and modern developments. Carries humanities divisional credit in  CAS.		

CAS PH 248: Existentialism
	Explores existentialism in contemporary philosophy. Topics include the grounds for belief and value;  depth, superficiality, and the intense life; commitment and open-mindedness; boredom, anxiety, and  adventure; and existentialism as a philosophy of the possible. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 251: Medical Ethics
	Explores moral philosophical issues that arise in connection with medicine and emerging biotechnologies.  Examines topics such as the right to healthcare, research ethics, euthanasia, abortion, concepts of death  and disease, and assisted reproductive technologies. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 253: Social Philosophy
	A survey of philosophical and sociological analyses of modern Western society, including Rousseau, Marx,  Weber, and a number of contemporary writers. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 254: Political Philosophy
	A study of western political philosophy that may include texts by authors such as Aristotle, Hobbes, Marx,  Kant, Schmitt, Rawls. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 256: Philosophy of Gender and Sexuality
	Analyzes notions of gender and sexuality. Questions include: Are gender and sexual identity natural, or are they social constructions? How are they related to love and desire? Carries humanities divisional credit in  CAS. Also offered as CAS PO 396.		

CAS PH 258: Philosophy and Literature
	Examines literature and philosophy through the sorts of demands they place upon reason, experience, and  language. Authors may include William James, Henry James, Wallace Stevens, T.S. Elliot, and many others.  Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 259: Philosophy of the Arts
	What makes something beautiful? How do different arts (music, dance, painting, sculpture, architecture,  film, drama) relate to our aesthetic experience of the world? Explores several philosophical theories of art  through specific examples of artwork. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 261: Puzzles and Paradoxes
	Our basic beliefs, when scrutinized, can yield absurd conclusions. For example, using seemingly  uncontroversial beliefs, we can conclude that motion is impossible and that everyone is bald. This course  examines many puzzles and paradoxes. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 265: Minds and Machines
	Examines efforts of artificial intelligence to model the human mind and explain human thought. Explores  the historical and mathematical origins of such efforts, and the psychological and philosophical  assumptions on which they depend. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 266: Mind, Brain, and Self
	Philosophical introduction to cognitive science. Considers the historical and intellectual background from  which cognitive science has emerged, as well as philosophical issues concerning the mind, brain, and self  that arise from contemporary scientific research. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 270: Philosophy of Science
	Uses scientific examples from the study of physics, biology, and mind. Focuses on the aims of science, the  nature of scientific understanding, the structure and interpretation of scientific theories, and the  development of science. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 272: Science, Technology, and Values
	Examination of some of the important ways in which science, technology, society, and human values are  interconnected. Includes case studies of the social and ethical challenges posed by computer, military, and   biological technology. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS PH 300: History of Ancient Philosophy
           			Classical Greek philosophy, with a concentration on the philosophies of Plato and Aristotle.		

