CAS IR 581: The Evolution of Strategic Intelligence
           			Examines the uses of strategic intelligence by modern world leaders in shaping policy and the effects of intelligence on world events. Various uses of intelligence--collecting information analysis, counterintelligence, and secret operations--are explored with emphasis on the period from the Congress of Vienna to the end of the Cold War. 		

CAS IR 582: Taiwan: Politics and Transformation
	(Meets with CAS PO 553.) Examines Taiwan's history, economic development, ethnic identity, democratization, and its controversial position in international politics as a key to understanding questions of political economy, democratic transition, and East Asian security.		

CAS IR 585: Problems and Issues in Post-Mao China
	Meets with CAS PO 549. An in-depth examination of politics in post-Mao China, this course  focuses on several critical issues, uses various conceptual frameworks to try to understand why  the reform process broke down, and examines prospects for the future. 		

CAS IR 586: Islam in South Asian Politics
           			Examines the relations among state, politics, and Islam in South Asia, with particular focus on the unsolved conflicts over Kashmir and Afghanistan. 		

CAS IR 587: Political Economy of the Middle East
	Considers the state of the Middle Eastern political economy and focuses on the failure of the rentier state and the difficulty of political and economic liberalization. Themes are petroleum, the uncertain course of political pluralism, and political Islam.  		

CAS IR 589: North Atlantic/European Security Issues
	Meets with CAS PO 582. Examination of the post Cold War security environment in the North  Atlantic and  greater European context.  Exploration of threats to security, mechanisms in place  and emerging (NATO, CSCE, CFE, WEU), and challenges posed by changes since fall 1989.     		

CAS IR 590: Political Economy of Latin America
	(Meets with CAS PO 562.) Historical and contemporary issues in Latin American political economy. Uses  case studies and cross-regional comparisons to assess competing explanations. Analyzes the current  political and economic situation facing Latin America in its quest for economic growth and development.		

CAS IR 592: Economic Development and International Institutions
           			Examines the role of international institutions in economic development. Analyzes how development- related international institutions makes rules and affect national policy choices. Applies those lessons to  concrete policy challenges, including possibilities for institutional reform.		

CAS IR 594: Global Environmental Negotiation and Policy
	(Meets with CAS GE 594.) Key concepts, actors, concerns, and issues related to the process of negotiating global environmental policies. Overviews of the international system and environmental problems; an international negotiation simulation; case studies of global agreements on ozone depletion, climate change, desertification, and biodiversity, among others. 		

CAS IR 596: Globalization and Contemporary Capitalism in Advanced Industrialized Nations
	Meets with CAS PO 529. How has globalization affected national sovereignty and control? Competing   hypotheses are examined with specific reference to the internationalization of trade and the financial   markets, and its impact on the three postwar models of capitalism. 		

CAS IR 597: Development and Environment in Latin America
           			(Meets with CAS GE 597.) Provides an empirically based understanding of the social and environmental aspects of economic development in Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC) for purposes of analyzing the numerous trade and development policies that nations in LAC are currently considering.		

CAS IR 598: International Business Intelligence and Security Practices
	Introduction to practices of international business intelligence and industrial security, including legal and ethical issues, and investment and market analysis for strategic planning. Lectures are supplemented by a team exercise on dealing with risk in the overseas environment.  		

CAS IR 599: Science, Politics, and Climate Change
	Applies a science and technology studies perspective to climate change science and  policy. Examines the relationships between scientific and political systems at global,  national, and local levels. Also offered as CAS GG 599. 		

CAS LA 111: Hausa 1
	First semester four-skill Hausa course leading to proficiency in oral expression, listening comprehension, reading, writing and cultural understanding. Introduction to reading and writing Hausa in Ajami, an Arabic-based script.		

CAS LA 112: Hausa 2
           			Second-semester four-skills Hausa course leading to proficiency in oral expression, listening  comprehension, reading, writing, and cultural understanding. This course is a continuation of the first semester's work, expanding students' ability to communicate in everyday contexts, and to read and write using both Latin and Ajami scripts.		

CAS LA 211: Hausa 3
           			Orally oriented approach supplemented by reading and writing. Culturally oriented text involves students  in dialogues discussing aspects of Hausa culture and traditions.		

CAS LA 212: Hausa 4
           			Continuation of CAS LA 211. This fourth-semester four-skill Hausa course develops competence and  confidence in the use of Hausa in reading, writing, speaking and listening in culturally acceptable ways.  Students learn to communicate at an intermediate high level of proficiency. 		

CAS LA 311: Hausa 5
           			In this fifth-semester course, students study and discuss various contemporary issues in Hausa society and   culture, including traditional and contemporary literature written in both Latin and Ajami scripts.   Instructional materials include internet resources and Hausa cinema. 		

CAS LA 312: Hausa 6
           			In this sixth semester course, students continue to study and discuss various issues in Hausa society and culture, including traditional contemporary Hausa literature (folk tales, stories, proverbs, etc.) written in both Latin  and Ajami scripts.		

CAS LA 411: Hausa 7
