CAS LS 491: Directed Study: Spanish
           			Application form available in the department.		

CAS LS 492: Directed Study: Spanish
           			Application form available in the department.		

CAS LS 504: History of the Spanish Language
           			The evolution from Latin to Spanish including developments due to external factors such as foreign  invasions, contacts with France, and the conquest of America. Analysis of the historical and cultural contexts in which this evolution occurred. 		

CAS LS 505: Topics in Spanish Linguistics
           			Topics vary.		

CAS LS 507: The Sounds of Spanish
           			Introduction to Spanish phonetics and phonology. Covers articulatory, acoustic, and auditory phonetics,   focusing on techniques for visualizing speech sounds. Examines the phonemic inventory and phonological   organization of Spanish from several perspectives, including generative and articulatory phonology as well   as sociolinguistics. Conducted in Spanish. Also offered as CAS LX 507.		

CAS LS 508: The Structure of Spanish
           			Introduction to Spanish morphology and syntax. Explores the structure of Spanish words, phrases, and   sentences from multiple perspectives with a focus on natural language data. Examines Generative, Usage-  Based, and Lexical-Functional approaches to the analysis of grammatical structure. Conducted in Spanish.  Also offered as CAS LX  508.		

CAS LS 554: Jorge Luis Borges
           			Hoaxes, plagiarism, rumors, gossip turned into fact, characters and plots emerging from sources as diverse as Cervantes, Poe, Kafka, Emerson, and Macedonio are some of the elements of this kaleidoscopic consideration of the poetry and prose of Jorge Luis Borges. Also offered as CAS  XL 470 C1.		

CAS LS 565: The Spanish Picaresque Novel
           			Development of the Spanish picaresque in relation to social and historical context. Special attention to its place in the evolution of the modern novel. Close study of Lazarillo de Tormes, Estebanillo González, works by Alemán, Cervantes, Quevedo, López de Ubeda. 		

CAS LS 570: Don Quixote
           			Close thematic, stylistic, and structural analysis of Cervantes's masterpiece. Attention to its contributions  to the development of the modern novel as well as to its place within the literary context of its day. 		

CAS LS 572: The Spanish American Colonial Experience: Early Texts, New Interpretations
           			Analysis of early texts that contributed to Europe's perception of the American continent and of modern  literary works from Spanish America that re-examine the European view. Authors include Columbus,  Cabeza de Vaca, Balboa, Carpentier, Posse, and Saer.		

CAS LS 575: Topics in Peninsular Literature
           			Topic for Fall 2014: Spanish Poetry through Translation. How poems "mean" across languages. Writing  about translation from Octavio Paz and Ortega y Gasset to Lawrence Venuti and Efraín Kristal. Exercises in  translation, imitation, and annotation; projects; critique of written work. Spanish and English.		

CAS LS 576: Topics in Spanish American Literature
           			Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

CAS LS 579: Topics in Hispanic Cinemas
           			Cinema as a perspective from which to analyze cultural and socio-political developments within the Spanish-speaking world. Topics drawn from the history of specific national cinemas, individual filmmakers or particular "schools," relations between literature and film, and political uses of film.  		

CAS LS 580: Mexico City in Literature and Film
           			This course explores urban experience in Mexico City from the literary, the cinematic and the theoretical  perspective. Focus on literary and filmic discourses about this city during the nineteenth and twentieth  centuries. Authors include Gutierrez Najera, Bunuel, and Ripstein.		

CAS LT 111: First-Semester Turkish
	Introduction to spoken and written Turkish and fundamentals of Turkish grammar, with oral drills and written exercises.		

CAS LT 112: Second-Semester Turkish
           			Completes introduction to modern Turkish grammar, with emphasis on development of aural and written comprehension, as well as writing and speaking abilities.		

CAS LT 211: Third-Semester Turkish
