CAS BI 581: Seminar in Biology
		Informal discussion and student reports on subjects of current interest based on an intensive study of the  literature. Topics vary. Topic for Fall 2011: The Evolution of Animal Signals. Recent advances in understanding the evolution of animal signals through theoretical and empirical studies. See Biology website for additional information.		

CAS BI 582: Seminar in Biology
		Informal discussion and student reports on subjects of current interest based on an intensive study of the  literature. Topics vary. List of approved seminars available at preregistration each semester.		

CAS BI 583: Seminar: Progress in Cell and Molecular Biology
           					

CAS BI 584: Seminar: Progress in Cell and Molecular Biology
           					

CAS BI 594: Topics in Neurobiology
           			Examines contemporary topics in neurobiological research, drawing from recent literature. Students  critically evaluate papers, assess the soundness of methods, distinguish correct from incorrect  interpretations of data, and discuss the soundness of conclusions. Topic for Fall 2012: Channelopathies:  When Ion Channels Go Bad.		

CAS BI 599: Physiology of the Synapse (PER/Neuro)
           			Structure, function, and composition of synapses in the nervous system. Topics include transmitter release  and uptake, synaptogenesis and plasticity as a cellular basis for higher brain functions such as learning  and memory. Emphasis on critical readings from primary literature. Three hours lecture, one hour  discussion.  		

CAS CC 101: Core Humanities I: The Ancient World
	Begins in the ancient Near East with the origins of Mesopotamian civilization and the Hebrew Bible. Continues with an overview of Greek civilization and careful study of Homer, Greek tragedy, Thucydides, and Plato.  		

CAS CC 102: Core Humanities II: Antiquity and the Medieval World
	Focusing on ethical themes and questions from the Western and Eastern traditions, the course includes Aristotle, Confucius, Lao Tzu, the Bhagavad Gita, Epictetus, Vergil, the Gospels, and Dante. Chronologically, the course covers the late-classical period in Greece, the rise and fall of the Roman Empire, and the medieval world.		

CAS CC 105: Core Natural Science I: The Evolution of the Physical Universe and of the Earth
	Traces the evolution of the physical universe and our scientific understanding of it. Special classes devoted to dialogue among professors in the sciences, philosophy, and theology. Topics include Big Bang theory, evolution of the stars, laws of the physical universe, evolution of the earth, and planetary ecology. Laboratory work includes night labs in the observatory.  		

CAS CC 106: Core Natural Science II: Origins
	Study of the origins of the universe, of the solar system, of the earth, of life, and of humanity. The ways in  which astronomy, earth science, biology, and anthropology investigate questions of origins, how they  consider elements such as time, what the various natural sciences have in common and where they differ. 		

CAS CC 111: Origins
	From where do we come? This course explores our understanding of the origins of the Universe, the earth,  life on earth, and human life through the various lenses of astronomy, geology, biology, and anthropology.  Carries natural sciences (with lab) divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS CC 201: Core Humanities III: The Renaissance
	From the late Middle Ages through the burgeoning of Renaissance humanism to the baroque period. The origins of modern political and scientific thought and of the comic novel. The flowering of English poetry, Petrarch, Montaigne, Rabelais, Cervantes, Shakespeare, Descartes, and Milton, as well as the music of Bach and the art of Michelangelo.		

CAS CC 202: Core Humanities IV: From the Enlightenment to Modernity
	From the philosophes and the Age of Reason through the Romantic Revolt and the  origins of modernity. Voltaire, Swift, Rousseau, the music of Mozart, Goethe's Faust, the Romantic poets, Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice, Nietzsche, and Dostoyevsky.		

CAS CC 203: Core Social Science I: Foundations of the Social Sciences
	Provides a historical framework for understanding the origins and concerns of the social sciences and the  major events and processes that have shaped the twentieth century both in the United States and around  the world. Readings are drawn from classic works of social and political theory: Aristotle, Tacitus, Ibn  Khaldun, Hobbes, Rousseau, Tocqueville, Weber, Marx, and Durkheim. 		

CAS CC 204: Core Social Science II: The Problem of Inequality
	Focuses on the problems of inequality and the response of contemporary social scientists. Topics include   psychological and sociological models of human identity, race and immigration, and contemporary   theories of justice, globalization, and the international order. The course includes significant study of   American society.		

CAS CG 111: Beginning Modern Greek 1
           			Course may not be elected by anyone with previous study of modern Greek without consent of the department. Provides a basic reading knowledge of modern Greek (demotic) and introduces students to the spoken language.		

CAS CG 112: Beginning Modern Greek 2
           			Review of grammar and syntax of modern Greek, reading in both prose and poetry, intensive oral practice.		

CAS CG 211: Intermediate Modern Greek 1
           			Intensive review of modern Greek grammar and syntax and drill material from CAS CG 111 and 112. Development of advanced oral and reading skills.		

CAS CG 212: Intermediate Modern Greek 2
