CAS AN 524: Seminar: Language and Culture Contacts in Contemporary Africa
           			Focuses on language variation and change in Africa. Provides students with a foundation in the  scholarship on contact linguistics, language variation and change, and the relationships between language  variation and gender, ethnicity, religion, and youth culture.		

CAS AN 532: Literacy and Islam in Africa
           			Examines the Islamization of Africa and the development of local literary traditions. Students learn about the sources of knowledge called Ajami (African texts written in the Arabic script) and gain a deeper understanding of the spread of Islam and its Africanization throughout the continent. Selected texts written by enslaved Africans in the Americas are also examined.   		

CAS AN 541: Modernity Seminar I
	This seminar looks at the phenomenon of modernity from a multidisciplinary point of view. Discussed  are the cultural foundations of modernity, specifically and primarily nationalism but also Romanticism, science, and major political ideologies. Also analyzed are modernization and development as studied by  the social sciences, modernism, and postmodernism in literary and cultural studies; and the nature of human beings and society in the perspectives of modern philosophy. Also offered as CAS SO 541. Either or both of AN 541 and AN 543 may be taken for credit.  		

CAS AN 543: Modernity Seminar II
	This seminar looks at the phenomenon of modernity from a multidisciplinary point of view. Discussed  are the cultural foundations of modernity, specifically and primarily nationalism but also Romanticism,  science, and major political ideologies. Also analyzed are modernization and development as studied by  the social sciences, modernism, and postmodernism in literary and cultural studies; and the nature of  man and society in the perspectives of modern philosophy. May be taken either or both semesters.  Also offered as CAS SO 543. Either or both of AN 541 and AN 543 may be taken for credit. 		

CAS AN 548: Muslim Societies: An Interdisciplinary History (area)
           			Examines the states, empires, faiths, and ideologies of the Muslim world over a 1500-year period,  including states from North and West Africa, through the Middle East, to Turkey, Iran, and then to Central  and Southeast Asia. Also offered as CAS AH 539, CAS HI 596, and CAS RN 563. 		

CAS AN 549: Savagery Fact, Fiction, and Factual Fiction
	Imaginings about animalistic humans, much changed over time, are compared against real cultures and  societies. Looking beyond "savagery within civilization" and vice versa, an examination of episodes of  romantic stereotyping and of "barbaric" interaction, for motives and for strategies of resolution.		

CAS AN 550: Human Skeleton
		Function, development, variation, and pathologies of the human musculoskeletal system, emphasizing issues of human evolution. Basic processes of bone biology and how they are affected by use, age, sex, diet, and disease. Meetings are predominantly lab oriented. 		

CAS AN 551: Anthropology and Human Heredity
           			Surveys the theory and methods of evolutionary genetics as applied to human evolution and human diversity. Emphasizes human evolution as illuminated by genetics, as well as the intersection of human genetics with social issues such as racism, bioethics, and eugenics.		

CAS AN 552: Primate Evolution and Anatomy
           			The evolutionary history of the primate radiation--particularly that of monkeys, apes, and humans--is examined through investigation of the musculoskeletal anatomy of living and fossil primates. Comparative and biomechanical approaches are used to reconstruct the behavior of extinct species.  		

CAS AN 556: The Evolution of the Human Diet
           			An investigation of human dietary evolution including primate and human dietary adaptations, nutritional requirements, optimal foraging, digestive physiology, maternal and infant nutrition, hunting and cooking in human evolution, and impacts of food processing and agriculture on modern diets and health.		

CAS AN 557: Anthropology of Mental Health
           			Considers mental illness from an anthropological point of view, including cultural, biological, and evolutionary perspectives. Focuses on the interaction of biology and culture in major mental disorders. Consideration is given to ethnomedical practices of healing mental illness.		

CAS AN 558: Human Sex Differences: Behavior, Biology, and Ecology
           			Why are men and women different? Adopts an evolutionary, adaptive approach to investigate sex differences in human behavior, physiology, and cognition from developmental, mechanistic, and phylogenetic perspectives. Topics include sex differences in aggression, mate choice, parenting, affiliation, and cognition.		

CAS AN 563: Public Religion and Politics Across Cultures
           			The contested role of religion in modern politics and its implications for civil life. Begins with the West and includes Islam in the Middle East and SE Asia. Evangelicalism in Latin American and Africa, Hindu nationalism, and Buddhism in China. Also offered as CAS IR 563.		

CAS AN 568: Symbol, Myth, and Rite
	Historical overview of ritual behavior, the role of symbolism in the study of culture, and the narrative quality of worldview and belief. Emphasis on verbal performance and public display events in specific cultural contexts. 		

CAS AN 570: Lovers and Leaders: The Anthropology of Romance and Charisma
	A comparison of theories of charismatic leadership and romantic love from sociology and psychology. Case studies from literature are discussed for illustration and comparison.		

CAS AN 571: Anthropology of Emotion
           			Outlines multidisciplinary conceptual frameworks for the study of emotion. Focus is on how cultural  anthropology has understood emotion as experience, as cognition, or as a symbolic system.		

CAS AN 573: The Ethnography of China and Taiwan (area)
           			Reading of major ethnographies and modern histories as a basis for examining changing Taiwanese and  Chinese culture and society. Attention to ethnography as a genre, as well as to the dramatic changes of the  past century.		

CAS AN 585: Seminar: Advanced Readings in African Ethnography
