CAS AN 351: Language, Culture, and Society
	Introduction to basic concepts, problems, and methods used by anthropologists in the investigation of relationships among language, culture, and society. Topics include language and conceptual systems, language and role, language and social context, and language and thought. 		

CAS AN 355: Religious Fundamentalism in Anthropological Perspective
	Anthropological study of the global phenomenon of religious fundamentalism. A product of the modern world, fundamentalism is perceived as counter-cultural and anti-nationalist. Cases drawn from North America and the Islamic Middle East, with special attention to women's interpretation of religion. 		

CAS AN 363: Food and Water: Critical Perspectives on Global Crises
	The multiple causes and consequences of global food and water crises. Examines production, consumption, and distribution of food, and studies a range of water management systems--and the politics of water--in different parts of the world.   		

CAS AN 371: Political Anthropology of the Modern World
	Examines the concepts of political anthropology and applies them to the analysis of the origins and development of the modern political world. Special attention to nations and nationalism, the state and modern development, comparative political culture, and urban and agrarian political change. 		

CAS AN 372: Psychological Anthropology
	Introduces students to some key theoretical perspectives and controversies in the cross-cultural study of psychology. Readings from classic texts and cross-cultural studies of emotion, sexuality, concepts of the person, national character, consciousness, authority, and religion.		

CAS AN 375: Culture, Society, and Religion in South Asia (area)
	Ethnographic and historical introduction to the Indian subcontinent with a focus on the impact of religion  on cultural practices and social institutions.		

CAS AN 379: China: Tradition and Transition (area)
	Examines daily life in China and Taiwan, tracing how opposed economic and political paths transformed a common tradition. Topics include capitalism and socialism; politics and social control; dissidence; gender relations; religion, arts, and literature; and pollution. 		

CAS AN 384: Anthropology of Religion
           			Myth, ritual, and religious experience across cultures. Special attention to the problem of religious  symbolism and meaning, religious conversion and revitalization, contrasts between traditional and world  religions, and the relation of religious knowledge to science, magic, and ideology. Also offered as CAS RN  387.		

CAS AN 397: Anthropological Film and Photography
	Considers the history and development of anthropological, ethnographic, and transcultural filmmaking. In-depth examination of important anthropological films in terms of methodologies, techniques, and strategies of expression; story, editing, narration, themes, style, content, art, and aesthetics.		

CAS AN 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS AN 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS AN 438: Ethnography of American Culture (area)
	Provides a theoretical basis for the anthropological investigation of American culture. After an introduction to the classical literature, readings focus on the suburban experience, sexuality and family life, and class in the contemporary United States.		

CAS AN 461: Ethnography and Anthropological Theory I
           			Discussion and analysis of major concepts, methods, and theories in social anthropology using case studies on ritual, politics, leadership, social control, and kinship belief. 		

CAS AN 462: Ethnography and Anthropological Theory II
           			Required of majors. Examines the background and philosophy of current anthropological theory and method. Discussion focuses on current issues in evolutionary, linguistic, and sociocultural theory. 		

CAS AN 491: Directed Study in Anthropology
           			Individual instruction and directed research in anthropology.		

CAS AN 492: Directed Study in Anthropology
           			Individual instruction and directed research in anthropology.		

CAS AN 505: Asian Development: The Case of Women (area)
	How women's lives in China, Japan, and India have been affected by economic development and social change. Women's education, health, child rearing, and labor force participation are considered in the context of socioeconomic and cultural influences. 		

CAS AN 510: Proposal Writing for Social Science Research
		The purpose of this course is to turn students' intellectual interests into answerable, field-based research   questions. The goal is the production of a project proposal for future research. Also offered as CAS AR  510.		

CAS AN 515: Authenticity and Identity
	Explores the idea of the authentic self in Western culture in readings from authors such as Montesquieu, Hegel, Rousseau, Diderot, Molière, and Nietzsche. Historical and cross-cultural perspective is provided through examples from medieval Europe, Pakistan, America, Bali, and China.		

CAS AN 521: Sociolinguistics
