CAS LJ 510: The Structure of the Japanese Language
           			Introduction to linguistic analysis of the Japanese language (phonology, word structure, grammar, genetic relationships); social and cultural issues (orthography, honorifics). Assignments geared to individual interests and needs. Conducted in English. 		

CAS LK 111: First-Semester Korean
           			Elementary grammar, conversation, reading, writing. 		

CAS LK 112: Second-Semester Korean
           			Continues the text from LK 111; grammar, conversation, reading, writing. 		

CAS LK 116: First Year Korean for Heritage Speakers
	Designed for students who can understand spoken Korean but who have little or no practice in reading or  writing. Comprehensive coverage of first year Korean grammar, reading, writing, and speaking.		

CAS LK 211: Third-Semester Korean
           			Development of communicative skills acquired in the first year. Readings in Korean. Writing exercises involving more complex grammatical patterns.		

CAS LK 212: Fourth-Semester Korean
           			Further review of the structures of Korean. Practice in conversation involving specialized topics. Advanced readings from Korean culture. Frequent compositions. Satisfactory completion of LK 212 fulfills the CAS language requirement.		

CAS LK 216: Second-Year Korean for Heritage Speakers
           			Continues from CAS LK 116. Designed for students who are fluent in spoken Korean but have only basic  practice in reading or writing. Comprehensive coverage of second-year Korean grammar, reading, writing,  and speaking. Successful completion of CAS LK 216 fulfills the CAS foreign language requirement.		

CAS LK 250: Introduction to Korean Literature (in English translation)
	What is Korean literature? How has it evolved through interaction with Chinese, Japanese, European and   American literatures and cultures? What roles have regional and global changes played in shaping Korean   imaginative writing? No prerequisites; readings and discussion in English. Carries humanities divisional  credit in CAS.		

CAS LK 260: Gateway to Asian Cultures
	Panoramic introduction to the cultures of East and South Asia in comparative perspective (China, Japan,  Korea, Vietnam, India). Examines shared foundations, transformative inflection points, sites, peoples, and  ideologies over the past two millennia through primary texts and media. Also offered as CAS LC 260, CAS  LJ 260, CAS LN 260, and CAS XL 260.		

CAS LK 311: Fifth-Semester Korean
           			Readings in modern literary writings and journalism.  Essays and discussions on issues in politics, society, and culture.  Vocabulary building, advanced grammar, and enhancement of speaking ability.  		

CAS LK 312: Sixth-Semester Korean
           			Continues CAS LK 311.  Readings in modern literary writings and journalism.  Essays and discussions on issues in politics, society, and culture.  Vocabulary building, advanced grammar, and enhancement of speaking ability. 		

CAS LK 383: Modern Korean Culture through Cinema (in English translation)
	Introduction to modern Korean culture and society through film from the Korean war (1950--1953) to the   present. Discussion and essays on modern Korean life as seen in Korean films. Critical analysis of changes   in Korean society. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that   was previously numbered CAS LK 283. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS LK 440: Korean Conversation and Composition through Media
           			Intensive practice of both oral and written forms of Korean. Survey of important cultural, social, political, and economic issues in Korea as portrayed in films, television, and periodicals. Development of effective written and spoken communication.		

CAS LK 441: Advanced Korean: Issues in Korean Society
           			Reading, discussion, and writing about current and historical events in Korea, Korean literature in historical context, recent political and economic reports, and cultural analysis of Korean society. Course is conducted in Korean.		

CAS LK 470: Topics in Korean Literature and Culture
	Topic and prerequisites vary. Topic for Fall 2014: Gender in East Asian Film. What roles have cinematic   representations played in constructing or challenging gender norms in twentieth century East Asia? How   have images of sexuality evolved across linguistic and cultural boundaries in East Asia? Films from China,   Japan, and Korea. Also offered as CAS LC 470, CAS LJ 451 B1, and CAS XL 382 A1.		

CAS LK 491: Directed Study: Korean
           			Application form available in the MLCL Department.		

CAS LK 492: Directed Study: Korean
           			Application form available in the MLCL Department.		

CAS LM 111: First-Semester isiXhosa
	Fundamentals of isiXhosa, a widely spoken African language. Focuses on developing basic communicative skills (reading, listening, speaking, and writing). Also explores aspects of the culture of the amaXhosa.  		

