CAS LY 139: Intensive First-year Arabic for Heritage Learners
           			Intensive first-year Arabic for students already knowing the Arabic alphabet and possessing some colloquial Arabic conversation skills. Reading, writing, speaking, and comprehension. One semester covers all material taught in CAS LY 111 and LY 112. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS LY 111 or LY 112.		

CAS LY 211: Second-Year Modern Arabic I
           			Completes the process of presenting the basic structures of modern formal Arabic, concentrating on weak verb forms, more complicated sentence formation, and more sophisticated expression in speech and writing. Vocabulary expansion and better root-pattern identification skills are also stressed.		

CAS LY 212: Second-Year Modern Arabic II
           			Completes the process of presenting the basic structures of modern formal Arabic, concentrating on weak verb forms, more complicated sentence formation, and more sophisticated expression in speech and writing. Vocabulary expansion and better root-pattern identification skills are also stressed.		

CAS LY 214: Levantine Arabic
           			To enhance oral communicative ability in colloquial Levantine Arabic. Introduces vocabulary, grammatical features, and cultural skills essential for informal communication with speakers of Syrian, Lebanese, Palestinian, and Jordanian Arabic.		

CAS LY 303: Third-Year Modern Arabic I
           			Advanced reading, composition, grammar review, listening skills, and conversation in Modern Standard Arabic as well as major dialects such as the Cairine or the Gulf dialect.  		

CAS LY 304: Third-Year Modern Arabic II
           			Continuing advanced reading, advanced composition; grammar review, listening skills, and conversation in Modern Standard Arabic as well as major dialects such as the Cairine or the Gulf dialect. 		

CAS LY 350: Introduction to Arabic Literature
           			Selection of Arabic poetry, short stories, novels, and drama. Focus on development and refinement of  Arabic reading strategies, literary analysis of short passages, and writing and speaking skills. Readings  and assignments in Arabic and English. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS LY 403: Advanced Arabic 1
           			Advanced-level reading and discussion in Modern Standard Arabic of media reports, scholarly articles, modern literary texts, and excerpts from classical writings. Student compositions and presentations in Arabic on topics related to readings.		

CAS LY 404: Advanced Arabic 2
           			Advanced conversation and composition course in conjunction with the study of famous literary and  cinematographic works of the Arabic-speaking world.		

CAS LY 420: Media Arabic
           			An advanced Arabic language course that builds skills in reading, listening, discussion, presentation, and  composition while familiarizing students with a broad range of Arab online media and their coverage of  current socio-political and cultural issues.		

CAS LY 441: 1001 Nights in the World Literary Imagination
           			What is The Thousand and One Nights? How has this ever-expanding collection appealed to its diverse  audiences? Focus on Nights structure and themes, notable translations and offshoots in western literature  and art, and later appropriations by Arab and Muslim writers. Also offered as CAS EN 590 and CAS XL 441.		

CAS LY 470: Topics in Arabic Literature
	May be taken multiple times for credit as topics change. Readings and assignments in English; readings    also available in Arabic. Topic for Fall 2014:  Russia in the Middle East: Literary Encounters. How have   Russian writers imagined the Muslim world? How have Arab writers imagined Russia and the USSR? What   happened when these fantasies collided during real-life encounters (diplomacy, study abroad, war,  exile)? Knowledge of Arabic or Russian useful but not necessary. Also offered as CAS LR 456 B1 and CAS  XL 470 B1. 		

CAS LY 471: Topics in Arab Culture and Arabic Language
           			May be taken multiple times for credit as topics change. Topic for Spring 2015: Arab Culture and Identity   (in English translation). Explores Arab culture primarily through media and the arts. Develops an   understanding of Arab culture focusing on media, film, the arts, language, and the Arab Spring in the   context of religious, socio-cultural and political identity.		

CAS LY 491: Directed Study: Arabic
           			Application form available in department.		

CAS LY 492: Directed Study: Arabic
           			Application form available in department.		

CAS LY 572: Arabic Translation and Interpreting
		Training in strategies of written translation between Arabic and English, and introduction to the challenges  of oral interpreting. Exercises drawn from various contemporary materials including print and broadcast  media as well as literary texts.		

