CAS LR 211: Second-Year Russian I
           			The fundamentals of Russian grammar and syntax. Development of reading and oral skills. 		

CAS LR 212: Second-Year Russian II
           			The fundamentals of Russian grammar and syntax. Development of reading and oral skills. Satisfactory completion of CAS LR 212 fulfills the CAS language requirement.		

CAS LR 250: Classics of Russian Prose (in English translation)
	Prose works that define the Russian literary tradition, including Pushkin's Queen of Spades, Gogol's Overcoat, Turgenev's Fathers and Sons, Dostoyevsky's Notes from the Underground, Tolstoy's Anna Karenina. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.   		

CAS LR 280: Dostoyevsky (in English translation)
	His literary and ideological development. Short novels, diaries, and major novels: Crime and Punishment, The Idiot, The Possessed, Brothers Karamazov. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.    		

CAS LR 281: Tolstoy (in English translation)
	Examination of development of Tolstoy's art; emphasis on formal aspects of his prose. Tolstoy's position in Russian and Western literature. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.   		

CAS LR 282: Russian Prose Classics of the Twentieth Century (in English translation)
	Introduction to the major writers of twentieth-century Russian prose and to the literary traditions that they represent through a close reading of selected texts. Readings will include works by the following authors: Chekhov, Sologub, Belyj, Babel, Olesha, Bulgakov, and Solzhenitsyn. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS LR 285: Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky (in English translation)
	Close reading of Tolstoy's War and Peace and Dostoyevsky's The Brothers Karamazov. Discussion of Russian masters and larger themes: epic tradition from Homer to Tolstoy; continuity of "tragic world view"; the contrasts between the epic mode and the dramatic, and between two opposed views of God and history. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS LR 303: Third-Year Russian: Reading, Grammar Review, and Conversation
           			Reading original unabridged Russian prose and poetry. Intensive work on improvement of fluency and quality of expression; special attention to pronunciation.		

CAS LR 304: Third-Year Russian II: Reading, Grammar Review, and Conversation
           			Reading original unabridged Russian prose and poetry. Intensive work on improvement of fluency and quality of expression; special attention to pronunciation.		

CAS LR 309: Style and Composition for Native Speakers of Russian
           			Intended for native speakers of Russian who require extensive grammar review.  Intensive study of the art of written expression in modern Russian through exercises in syntactic structure, translations from English into Russian and original compositions. Special attention to orthography. Development of individual style.		

CAS LR 350: Introduction to Analysis of Russian Prose Texts
           			Introduction to the great prose style of Russian literature. Pushkin, Gogol, Dostoyevsky, Turgenev, Tolstoy, and Chekhov: techniques of interpretation and close reading of short works. Carries humanities divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS LR 354: Russian Theatre
	Introduction to Russian drama in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Emphasis on thematic concerns  and character development. Discussion and readings in English with an additional hour for students with  reading proficiency in Russian. Also offered as CAS LR 554.		

CAS LR 355: Chekhov: The Stories and Plays (in English translation)
	Comprised of two components. First: an in-depth study of Chekhov's short stories and plays in pursuit of  an understanding of their literary, cultural and historical significance. In the second part of the course  students develop and produce a play composed of scenes from Chekhov and present it to the public at the  end of the semester. Taught in English.		

CAS LR 388: Russian and Soviet Film (in English translation)
	History of Russian and Soviet cinema in relation to artistic, cultural, and political developments in the  twentieth century. Films by Eisenstein, Vertov, Pudovkin, as well as the "new" postwar cinema and the  problems confronted by filmmakers in the post-Soviet era. Readings of theoretical and critical works. This  course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously  numbered CAS LR 288.		

CAS LR 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LR 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS LR 403: Advanced Russian Grammar
           			Subtleties of grammar and usage. Written projects, including English to Russian translations. Contemporary journalistic and literary sources.		

CAS LR 442: Russian Media
           			Social role of the media. Critical evaluation of television programs and especially of documentaries. Effects and responsibilities of radio, television, film, and print media as cultural, social, and economic forces. 		

CAS LR 492: Directed Study: Russian
