CAS SO 210: Confronting Persistent Social Inequalities in American Schools: Educational and Sociological Perspectives
	Examines issues of race, culture, gender, and identity in urban elementary classrooms. Course taught at  the Trotter School; transportation provided. Includes a field placement.		

CAS SO 211: Confronting Racial, Cultural, Gender, and Social Identities in Urban Classrooms: Educational and  Sociological Perspectives
           			Examines the sociological, cultural, and educational factors that contribute to the achievement gap and  what it will take to close this gap. Course is taught at the Trotter School; transportation provided. Includes  a field placement.		

CAS SO 215: Sociology of Health Care
	Social, cultural, and intercultural factors in health and illness. Training and socialization of medical professionals, roots of medical power and authority, organization and operation of health care facilities. U.S. health care system and its main problems. Comparison of health care systems in the U.S. and in other countries. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS.  		

CAS SO 225: Law and Society
	The development of law as an institution of social regulation. Analysis of law and order as pursued in enforcement agencies and courts. The education of lawyers and the ethics of legal practice. Student observations in local criminal courts.  Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS SO 115. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS SO 232: Sociology and Inequality
	Investigates the formation of social classes and the social forces that create and sustain inequalities in the   United States and beyond, including attention to intersections of gender, race and ethnicity in family,   education, and the workplace.		

CAS SO 240: Sexuality and Social Life
	Introduction to sociological perspectives on sexuality. Historical and comparative analysis of sexuality, with   a focus on the social and cultural institutions that shape sexuality in the contemporary U.S. Carries social   science divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS SO 241: Sociology of Gender
	An introduction to the social construction of sex and gender with a focus on the economic, political, social,  and cultural forces that shape gender relations. Examines gender as a social structure that patterns  institutional inequalities and everyday interactions on society. Also offered as CAS WS 241.		

CAS SO 242: Globalization and World Poverty
	(Meets with CAS IR 242.) Globalization and world poverty; how and why over 80% of the world remains  poor and inequality increases despite economic modernization and democratization. Addresses  urbanization, immigration, religion, politics, development politics, foreign aid, women, drugs,  environment, food security. Special attention to Latin American, African, and Asian experiences. Carries  social science divisional credit in CAS.		

CAS SO 243: Immigrant Communities
	Introduction to sociology of immigrant communities with a focus on the contemporary U.S. Students gain an understanding of how immigrant communities develop, the different forms they take, and how they shape the social and economic adaptations of varied immigrant groups.		

CAS SO 244: Urban Sociology
	An analysis of cities and urban phenomena in preindustrial, industrial, and postindustrial societies with an emphasis on European and U.S. urbanization. A comparison of social scientific "theories" used to explain these same phenomena. Carries social science divisional credit in CAS. 		

CAS SO 246: Sociology of Market Transitions
	Focus on East-Central Europe, the former Soviet Union, and China in the context of post-communist economic and political reforms and globalization. Topics include privatization, entrepreneurship, banking, and corruption. Effects on healthcare, education, social inequality, family and household dynamics.		

CAS SO 250: Introduction to the Sociology of Religion
	Explores the role of religion in the organization of meaning within human societies and its contribution to  the construction, maintenance, and transformation of the social order. Ways in which religion provides  specific sets of solutions to the problems of social order are also explored. Also offered as CAS RN 250.		

CAS SO 277: Technology and Society
	Examines technology as a fundamental element of and dynamic force in our society with the aim of providing a balanced understanding of the promise, consequences, and dilemmas brought about by specific technologies and to broaden students' perspectives and sense of social and professional responsibility for decisions related to technology. Combines both a liberal arts and an engineering perspective. 		

CAS SO 303: Substantive Themes in Sociological Theory
           			Critique and application of major sociological theories to key themes and topics. Connections between classical and modern arguments, syntheses of alternative perspectives, and gaps between various perspectives. Themes include the maintenance of social order, power and authority, conflict and change, and sources of alienation.		

CAS SO 304: Formal Organizations
           			Formal organizations as social systems. Theory of bureaucracy and administrative functions. The bases of authority, communication systems, and formal and nonformal structures. Organizational development, trends, and relations with the social environment.		

CAS SO 306: Boston's People and Neighborhoods
           			A comparison between nineteenth- and twentieth-century neighborhoods, connecting changes in everyday  life to larger demographic, economic, physical, and political changes affecting the whole city and  immediate suburbs. Includes tours of several Boston neighborhoods and archival research using  neighborhood newspapers.		

CAS SO 313: Economic Sociology
           			Presents the sociological approach to the study of production, distribution, consumption and markets, emphasizing the impact of norms, power, social structure, and institutions on the economy.  Compares classic and contemporary approaches to the economy by the social science disciplines. 		

CAS SO 315: The Social Nature of Technology
           			Theoretical foundations of sociology of technology from antiquity through the modern age.  Explores the  paradox of technology as being socially constructed, but treated as similar to nature. 		

CAS SO 318: Sociology of Childhood and Youth
           			Explores the "social construction" of childhood and youth, and examines ways in which social institutions (family, schools, media, and law) influence children's lives in different social settings. Also examined are social and policy issues surrounding childhood in the U.S. today. 		

CAS SO 320: Political Sociology
           			Introduces theories and research in political sociology and comparative politics. Examines the ways political ideas and governmental structures affect current issues, such as U.S. presidential elections, the waging of war, genocide, gender inequality, and provision of social services.		

