CAS IR 535: Diplomacy and Statecraft
	Examines the mechanisms and process of diplomacy in historical context, to assess approaches to the implementation of foreign policy, analyze the success and failure of these approaches in different circumstances, and consider wider issues in the application of statecraft.		

CAS IR 538: France, Europe, and the World: The History of French Foreign Relations in Modern  Times
           			(Meets with CAS HI 538.) An advanced research colloquium for history and international  relations undergraduate concentrators and graduate students that explores the evolution  of France's position in Europe and the world from the beginning of the First World War to  the present.		

CAS IR 542: The Reemergence of Russia
	Disintegration of the old Soviet system and signs of a reemerging Russia; careers of Gorbachev and Yeltsin  and their attack on the foundations of Stalinism; Moscow's role in the 1989 revolutions; the August 1991  coup d'état. The legacy of communism in the present medical and ecological crises; current political  developments.		

CAS IR 543: The Changing Face of Eastern Europe
	Domestic and foreign policies of East European states, their relations with the former Soviet Union and with each other. Emphasis is on the period 1989-92, but recent events are presented with the historical contexts. Analysis of the formation and subsequent implosion of the Soviet sphere in Europe. The collapse of communism in Poland, Germany, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Romania, and Bulgaria and its impact on the Soviet crisis, the Western alliance, and international relations. 		

CAS IR 546: Power and Legitimacy: Ideology as a Political Tool
	Using original texts from Plato to Havel, political theories and ideologies are studied as instruments of power. Analysis of the relationship between ideas, political elites, institutions, decision-making processes, and legitimacy. Emphasis is on the newly emerged post-totalitarian states.		

CAS IR 548: United Nations Peacekeeping
	Provides an understanding of the problems confronting United Nations-led efforts to  prevent armed conflict before it starts, contain and end such conflicts once they start, and  create conditions whereby an enduring peace can be maintained.		

CAS IR 550: European Integration
	Meets with CAS PO 535. Assesses the meaning of "European Union" in its domestic, foreign policy, and economic dimensions. To understand the opportunities and limits of cooperation and conflict, relevant issue areas of European Community policy are discussed from a functionalist and realist perspective. 		

CAS IR 551: Social Europe: Identity, Citizenship, and the Welfare State
           			Meets with CAS PO 536. The past, present and future of "social Europe." Impact of European  economic and  political integration on national identities, cultures, politics, and citizenship; EU  policies affecting these  social constructions; and changes over time in the welfare state.		

CAS IR 552: Nordic Europe
	Meets with CAS PO 544. A brief historical overview of the region from the Viking Age to the emergence of   the modern states is followed by study of the Nordic countries with respect to the European Union, security   arrangements, and assistance to the developing world. 		

CAS IR 553: Classics of International Relations
	Close reading of one or more of the following, with applications of their teachings to historic and  contemporary problems: Thucydides, The Peloponnesian War; Xenophon, Anabasis and the Education of  Cyrus; Tacitus, The Annals; Sun Tsu, The Art of War; Kau-tilya, The Arthasastra; Persia's Shah Nameh;  Machiavelli, The Prince and The Discourses; Winston Churchill, The Life of Marlborough; Clausewitz, On  War; and Charles de Gaulle, France and Her Army and The Edge of the Sword. 		

CAS IR 556: Current Intelligence Issues
	Examines U.S. intelligence needs, with an emphasis on preparing for international developments in advance. Addresses issues of transnational terrorism and proliferation in additional to traditional concerns such as rogue states, counterintelligence, organized crime, regional rivals, and rising powers.  		

CAS IR 559: Reckoning with the Past: Reparations and Justice in Comparative Perspective
	Meets with CAS AA 559 and PO 585. The debate about reparations for slavery and Jim Crow  segregation in  the United States examined critically as conversation about, and movement for,  retrospective justice.  Includes discussion of war crimes tribunals and truth commissions. 		

CAS IR 561: Religion and International Relations
           			(Meets with CAS PO 589 and CAS RN 561.)  Explores the role of religion in contemporary international  relations in the context of questions about the common core of modernity. Reviews scholarly and policy  literature, and case studies, in order to elucidate religion's intellectual and operational diversity in  international relations.		

CAS IR 563: Public Religion and Politics Across Cultures
           			The contested role of religion in modern politics and its implications for civil life. Begins with the West and includes Islam in the Middle East and SE Asia, Evangelism in Latin America and Africa, Hindu nationalism, and Buddhism in China. 		

CAS IR 566: Democracy in Latin America and Its Challenges
	(Meets with CAS PO 580.) Provides an overview of democracy's achievements and challenges in Latin America. Draws comparisons between stable and unstable democracies in the region, and analyzes the reasons for, and implications of, these differences.		

CAS IR 568: U.S.-Latin American Relations
	Meets with CAS PO 565. The international context within which Latin American countries operate, with   primary emphasis on U.S. policy toward the region. Includes historical overview, the policy-making process   itself, and case studies of specific policy issues. 		

CAS IR 569: Politics and Society in North Africa and the Middle East
	Meets with CAS PO 570. An investigation of contemporary North Africa and the Middle East, with emphasis  on current socioeconomic and political trends and tensions. 		

CAS IR 573: Introduction to Public International Law
	The role of international law in efforts to solve current problems of world order. Emphasis on environmental protection and the regulation of ocean space and resources.  The role of law in conflict and cooperation, and the quest for international security.  		

CAS IR 577: Foreign Policy of the People's Republic of China
	Meets with CAS PO 576. Explores China's perception of its role in the world, its evolution from a regional to  a world power, and its security and economic relationships within the international system. Relationships  with the superpowers, Third World, and world economy, focusing on technology and capital transfers.		

CAS IR 579: Japan in International Politics
	Meets with CAS PO 552. International and domestic influences on Japan's international behavior in the past  as a predictor of Japan's future role in international politics. Covers Japan's role in the Cold War, post-war  Asia, and the management of the global economy. Examines viability of post-Cold War U.S.-Japan relationship. 		

