CAS PS 371: Abnormal Psychology
           			Attention to the wide range of ways in which personality may become disordered; emphasis on normal behavior development as highlighted by psychopathology. Evidence and theories concerning problems of treatment also considered.		

CAS PS 401: Senior Independent Work
           			Supervised independent research in some area of psychology.		

CAS PS 402: Senior Independent Work
           			Supervised independent research in some area of psychology.		

CAS PS 434: Principles of Behavior Modification
           			A survey of contemporary behavioral intervention and therapy procedures as they have been applied in various settings. Methods of evaluating the effectiveness of these procedures are stressed. Open to nonconcentatrators.		

CAS PS 471: Seminar: Psychopathology
           			Selected clinical syndromes; neuroses, character disorders, and schizophrenia in children or adults. Selected clinical issues such as sleep and dreaming, psychosomatic illness, attachment and loss, and depression. 		

CAS PS 472: Family Violence: Theories and Research
           			Studies family violence, particularly child and spouse abuse. Students learn various theories while examining epidemiologic, cross-cultural, and clinical data. Through demonstrations, students also learn basic preventative and intervention techniques. 		

CAS PS 473: Introduction to Clinical Psychology
           			Introduction to current diagnostic and treatment techniques in clinical psychology from empirical, applied, and theoretical perspectives. Topics covered include clinical interviewing, psychological testing, and a comparison of humanistic, analytic, and systems approaches to therapy.   		

CAS PS 475: Counseling: Theory and Listening Techniques
           			Introduces the theoretical underpinnings of counseling and builds students' listening skills. Extensive role-playing using audio and videotapes.		

CAS PS 491: Directed Study in Psychology
           			Individual instruction and directed research in a selected topic.		

CAS PS 492: Directed Study in Psychology
           			Individual instruction and directed research in a selected topic.		

CAS PS 504: Trends in Contemporary Psychology
           			Various contemporary trends in psychology presented. Content varies: consult  department for emphasis and topics.		

CAS PS 528: Human Brain Mapping
           			Localization in the brain of human mental functions and the study of their neural mechanisms. Topics  include methods (fMRI, PET, TMS, ERP), memory, perception, recognition, attention, and executive  processes. Also offered as CAS NE 528.		

CAS PS 529: Neuroplasticity: Enabling the Brain to Heal Itself
           			Review of neurophysiological mechanisms underlying the astounding reorganizational capacity of the  brain. Critical examination of ways to promote this plasticity: early childhood experiences, positive  thinking, meditation, exercise, visualization, physical therapy, computerized re-training, and sensory and  motor prostheses. Also offered as CAS NE 529.		

CAS PS 530: Neural Models of Memory Function
           			Computational models of neurobiological mechanisms for memory function and spatial navigation, with a  particular emphasis on cellular and circuit models of the hippocampus and related cortical structures. Also  offered as CAS NE 530.		

CAS PS 541: Social Development
           			An examination of the development of social cognition and competence. Topics include: innate and early-emerging social knowledge, attachment, moral development and cooperation, theory of mind, group biases, and social learning.		

CAS PS 544: Developmental Neuropsychology
