CAS LF 491: Directed Study: French
           			Application Form available in department.		

CAS LF 492: Directed Study: French
           			Application Form available in department.		

CAS LF 500: French Phonetics
           			Students work to improve their own pronunciation through study of the distribution and articulation of  French sounds, liaison, "mute e," and intonation, and through oral practice in the language laboratory.  Written exercises and phonetic transcription reinforce theoretical points. Conducted in French.		

CAS LF 502: The Structure of French: Syntax
           			Investigation of the syntactic and logical relations in French, with occasional comparison to Quebecois, and  to English and other languages. Students will discover structural properties through frequent problem sets.  Conducted in French. 		

CAS LF 503: The Structure of French: Phonology
           			The sound system of standard French, with comparison to Québecois. Questions about the mental  representation of linguistic information, processes of word formation, and language variation and change  are discussed. Frequent problem sets allow students to discover linguistic regularities. Conducted in  French.		

CAS LF 551: Modern French Theatre
           			Origins and definitions of major theatrical forms, especially tragedy. Close analysis of both theoretical and theatrical texts. Application of dramatic theory (Artaud, Grotowski) to plays by Claudel, Cocteau, Giraudoux, Anouilh, Genet, Beckett, and others. 		

CAS LF 556: French Cinema and Literature
           			Analysis of classic French films by Vigo, Renoir, Carné, Malle, Bresson, Godard, and Truffaut as well as later  twentieth and early twenty-first century works. Weekly screenings, reading of literary models and film  theory.		

CAS LF 562: The Age of Versailles
           			Seventeenth-century developments in classical theater, the novel, poetry, and fairy tales in relation to the  vision of an all-powerful monarchy. Creative responses to a culture of constraint, as seen in works of  Corneille, Racine, Molière, La Fayette, La Fontaine, Aulnoy. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS LF 452.		

CAS LF 563: French Tragedy of the Seventeenth Century
           			Development of French tragedy from the early part of the century to the end of the classical period, as illustrated in the plays of Corneille and Racine.  Discussion of major critical studies by Bénichou, Doubrovsky, Goldmann, Mauron, and Barthes.  		

CAS LF 565: Medieval Courtly Literature
           			Just what is "courtly literature"? Using le roi Arthur, Guenièvre, Lancelot, and Merlin as guides, this course follows the intertwined evolution of courtly romance and Arthur's very particular court romances. Also analyses issues of authorship and authority, social critique, and the emergence of "fiction".		

CAS LF 569: Topics in Francophone Writing
           			Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

CAS LF 570: Topics in Twentieth Century/Twenty-First Century French Literature
           			Topic for Fall 2012: French Lives. A consideration of three generations of French intellectual history  through the lives and major autobiographical texts of three masters of French prose. Readings include  André Malraux's Antimémoires, Claude Lévi-Strauss' Tristes Tropiques, and Régis Debray's Loués soient  nos seigneurs.		

CAS LF 571: Topics in Nineteenth-Century French Literature
           			Topic for Fall 2014: Women, Money, and Power. Intersections of these three sites of desire in nineteenth  century French narrative. Topics include the family, prostitution, gender identity, counter-discursive   practices, and cultural contexts. Texts by Balzac, Flaubert, Zola, and Rachilde. Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

CAS LF 575: Later French Renaissance
           			Emphasizes the impact of the discovery of the New World, the Wars of Religion, and early print culture on  French society and letters. Special attention given to Montaigne's Essays. Additional authors studied may  include Du Bellay, Rabelais, de Léry, or Marguerite de Navarre.		

CAS LF 586: Reading Narrative Film (in English translation)
	Explores how European filmmakers have approached filmmaking more as a theoretical activity than as  entertainment. Students learn the tools of cinematic analysis and apply them to a series of seminal  (predominantly French) films, each suggesting a particular theory of film itself. Class conducted in English;  films with subtitles.		

CAS LG 111: First-Semester German
	For beginners or according to placement test results. Introduction to grammar, vocabulary, structure of German, emphasizing the four basic skills: speaking, writing, listening, and reading. (If CAS LG 112 or a more advanced college-level course has been completed, this course may not be taken for credit.)  		

CAS LG 112: Second-Semester German
