CAS XL 382: Topics in Gender and Film (in English translation)
	Topic for Fall 2014: Gender in East Asian Film. What roles have cinematic representations played in   constructing or challenging gender norms in twentieth century East Asia? How have images of sexuality   evolved across linguistic and cultural boundaries in East Asia? Films from China, Japan, and Korea. No   prerequisites. Also offered as CAS LC 470 A1, CAS LJ 451 B1, and CAS LK 470 A1.		

CAS XL 383: Dante's Hell (in English translation)
           			A close reading of one text, Dante Alighieri's Inferno, with attention to its medieval contexts: philosophical, theological, and historical. Analysis of the poetic means by which Dante represents both human evil and human hope. Bilingual text. Lectures and discussions in English.  Also offered as CAS LI 555 and CAS RN 555.		

CAS XL 384: Arthurian Literature
           			Topic for Spring 2014: Arthurian Traditions. Tradition and innovation in works of literature, painting, and  film inspired by King Arthur's court (6th-21st centuries). Themes include spiritual and erotic love; history  and imagination; conquest and nationalism; memory and forgetting; tropes of quest; sin and redemption.  Conducted in English.		

CAS XL 401: Sr Indep Work
			

CAS XL 402: Sr Indep Work
			

CAS XL 441: 1001 Nights in the World Literary Imagination
           			What is The Thousand and One Nights? How has this ever-expanding collection appealed to its diverse  audiences? Focus on Nights structure and themes, notable translations and offshoots in western literature  and art, and later appropriations by Arab and Muslim writers. Also offered as CAS EN 590 and CAS LY 441. 		

CAS XL 459: Primo Levi Within Holocaust Literature
	A study of Primo Levi's writings and scientific, literary, theological, and philosophical approaches to the Holocaust. Other theorists (Arendt, Wiesel, and Müller-Hill) and other survivors' testimonies (Delbo, Borowski, Fink) are read in conjunction with Levi's works. Also offered as CAS LI 459 and RN 459.		

CAS XL 470: Topics in Comparative Literature
	Three topics are offered Fall 2014. Students may take one, two, or three for credit. Section A1:   Literature in Iran and Afghanistan. Readings are premodern and modern texts, as well as film viewings,   with the aim of understanding how the two nations have received a shared literary heritage. What   modern cultural concerns are reflected in the different views of the Persian past? Also offered as CAS LZ   380 A1. Section B1: Russia in the Middle East: Literary Encounters. How have Russian writers imagined   the Muslim world? How have Arab writers imagined Russia and the USSR?  What happened when these   fantasies collided during real-life encounters (diplomacy, study abroad, war, exile)?  Knowledge of   Arabic or Russian useful but not necessary. Also offered as CAS LY 470 A1 and CAS LR 456 B1. Section  C1: Melodrama.  Melodrama as genre of fiction and film with focus on Japanese texts, viewed from a  comparative  perspective. Reading and discussion in English. Also offered as CAS LJ 451 A1.		

CAS XL 491: Ds Comp Lit
			

CAS XL 492: Ds Comp Lit
			

CAS XL 520: Theory of the Novel
           			Introduction to the theory of the novel in a comparative context. Readings may include Watt, Lukács, Bakhtin, Barthes and others on topics such as narrative voice, narrative closure, characterization, description, and desire in narrative. Novels by Austen, Flaubert, and Melville.		

CAS XL 540: Theory and Practice of Literary Translation
           			Weekly series of presentations by translators from Boston and elsewhere, open to registered students and to the public. Registered students complete special projects and attend workshops.		

CAS XL 560: Topics in Religion and Literature
           			Topic for Fall 2014: Apocalypse and  Literature. Literary responses to the biblical book of Revelation, from  ancient to modern times. Systematic analysis of the biblical text. Readings from Dante, Langland, Rabelais,  Blake, Hölderlin, Dostoevsky, García Lorca, Samuel Beckett, and Flannery O'Connor. Reference to artistic  and musical  representations of apocalypse. Also offered as CAS RN 524 A1.		

