CAS PO 495: Theories of Political Society
	An examination of recent political accounts of "modernity," that is, of the unique character of advanced  industrial cultures. Readings include classic authors (Rousseau, Marx, Freud, Weber) and contemporary  writers (Habermas, MacIntyre, Lyotard, Toulmin). Also offered as CAS PH 453.		

CAS PO 496: Legal Philosophy
           			A critical examination of ideas about the nature of law, duties of obedience and resistance, and legal   interpretation, with an emphasis on modern theories. Because this course meets with a Law School course,   its schedule follows the Law School's standard academic calendar. Also meets with CAS PH 455.		

CAS PO 497: Crime and Punishment: Philosophical Perspectives
           			Study of fundamental issues in criminal law, including the theory and definition of crime; economic,  utilitarian, and retributivist justifications of punishment; exculpating circumstances; the death penalty; and  the relationship between law and politics. Also offered as CAS PH 458.		

CAS PO 498: Marx and Marxism
           			Philosophical foundation of Marxism and its development. Critical study of Marx's writings stressing  questions of philosophy, political economy, science, and history. Emphasis on Marx's theory of relation of  praxis to consciousness. Later (including contemporary) Marxists and critics. Also offered as CAS PH 418.		

CAS PO 499: Political and Legal Philosophy
           			Examination of the individual's responsibilities under law, specifically of the idea that there is a general   moral obligation to obey the law, including unjust law, and the contrasting idea of civil disobedience-- the   possibility of morally justified resistance to law. Also offered as CAS PH 459.		

CAS PO 500: The Politics of Education
	Overview of the origins of public schooling, the purpose of public education, and controversial educational  policies and research. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title  that was previously numbered CAS PO 548.		

CAS PO 502: Political Analysis: A Primer
	The logic and methods of empirical analysis in political science. Includes discussion of experimental, observational, ethnographic, and mass survey research  designs. Recommended for students pursuing Honors reserach or considering graduate work in  political science.		

CAS PO 503: The U.S. in the Middle East
           			Meets with CAS IR 503. Examines the historical development and present status of the United  States' association with the Middle East: American commercial, economic, political, military, and  humanitarian interests in the area and their interaction. This course cannot be taken for credit in  addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 570.		

CAS PO 504: Public Policy Analysis: Issues, Concepts, and Tools
           			The analytical foundations of public policy analysis and the limitations on "rational" policy-making. An  analysis of several controversial public policies (e.g., regulating the economy, immigration, health care  reform) which may vary from year to year. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course  with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 641.		

CAS PO 506: American Politics and the Separation of Powers
           			Examines inter-institutional dynamics in the American system of separated powers. Explicit focus on the  relationships between the president, Congress, and judiciary, and on the strategies each employs to affect  political outputs. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that  was previously numbered CAS PO 510.		

CAS PO 507: Development of American Constitutional Law
           			A survey of the development of constitutional law and the exercise of power by the U.S. Supreme Court.  The course is drawn entirely from decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court and the principal theme is the  development of national constitutions and power. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 513.		

CAS PO 508: The Judiciary and Civil Liberties
	First Amendment rights of speech, press, assembly, religion; rights of defendants in criminal cases; and  the constitutional protection of racial minorities. Supreme Court decision-making processes and modes of  compliance with its decisions are also considered. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 514.		

CAS PO 511: American Electoral Behavior
	The scientific study of elections and political participation with emphasis on voting in U.S. presidential elections. Topics include partisanship, ideology, voter turnout, political participation, campaign organization and strategy, and the effects of campaigns on voters. This course cannot be taken for credit  in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 524.		

CAS PO 513: Interest Groups, Public Opinion, and the Policy Process
	Focuses on public opinion and interest group activities as they affect the policy-making process  in the United States. Attention is paid to the role of the media, of lobbying, of litigation, and of  the electoral process.  This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the  same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 544.		

CAS PO 515: American Politics and Use of Force
           			Examines how domestic politics drive the use of force in the postwar United States. Explores how  Congress, courts, interest groups, media, and public opinion define Presidential action in times of crisis, as  well as the kinds of crises that evoke action. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 518.		

CAS PO 516: Gender and Politics
	Analyzes the development of female citizenship in the United States since the 19th Amendment,  guaranteeing women's suffrage. Inequalities based on sex and sexuality, and the political and legal  attempts to address these issues are discussed.		

CAS PO 517: Urban Politics and Policy
	Explores the impact of American urban politics on the implementation of local policy. Topics include  deindustrialization, white flight, neighborhood effects, housing policy, schools, regionalism, and factors  that constrain policy-making capacities.		

CAS PO 520: Readings in Public Policy
	Topic for Fall 2014: The Future of Public Policies. Explores the future of major public policy topics (e.g.,  food, privacy, property, higher education, genetic technology, human migration, crime and punishment,  arts, democratic nation building, environment and climate change, urban planning, employment,  retirement) by constructing and analyzing  contrasting policy possibilities.		

CAS PO 524: Governance
	What is good governance, and what are its causes and effects? These questions, at the heart of political  science since Aristotle, are addressed empirically through cross-national data and case studies. This course  cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the title "Democratic Governance" that was  previously numbered CAS PO 521.		

CAS PO 525: Bureaucracy and Governance: A Comparative Inquiry
