CAS AR 307: Archaeological Science
           			Application of natural sciences, as an integral part of modern archaeology, to issues of dating, reconstructing past environments and diets, and analysis of mineral and biological remains. Laboratories concentrate on biological, geological, physical, and chemical approaches.		

CAS AR 342: Archaeology in the Holy Land
           			In Israel, archaeology is part of current events. The study of remains from the Israelite to the Muslim  conquests (c. 1200 BCE -- 640 CE) to learn how material evidence created and still plays a role in a larger  historical drama. Also offered as CAS RN 390.		

CAS AR 343: Anatolian Archaeology
	A historically-oriented survey of the material remains of the ancient cultures of Turkey and northwest Iran  from the Neolithic to the Hellenistic period. Emphasis is on the Hittite Empire and civilizations that  succeeded it in the first millennium BCE.		

CAS AR 346: Seminar: The Archaeology of Ancient Egypt
           			Examines the prehistoric and early historical origins of ancient Egyptian civilization, major institutions of the culture, and culture changes through time. Topics studied include changing socio-political organization, demography and the economic system, and beliefs/religion.		

CAS AR 348: Gods, Graves and Pyramids: Ancient Egyptian Religion and Ritual
	This course provides an understanding of the beliefs of the ancient Egyptians, based on a synthesis of the  data: archaeological, architectural, and textual.		

CAS AR 370: Archaeology of Colonial America
	Introduction to the archaeology of American life in the colonial period. A consideration of the material culture of early America, including architecture, artifacts, complete sites, and the use of archaeology to confirm or modify the written record. 		

CAS AR 371: Archaeology of Postcolonial America
           			The archaeology of America from the Revolution to the present. Deals with the social history, industry, and material culture of recent and modern Americans. 		

CAS AR 390: The Archaeology of Southeast Asia
	Examines the prehistoric and historic cultures of Southeast Asia, including the first arrival of humans,  regional Neolithic and Bronze Age communities, early states, maritime trading networks, as well as political  motivations in archaeology and the illicit antiquities trade.		

CAS AR 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS AR 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS AR 430: The End of Days: Analyzing Collapse in Complex Societies
           			Seminar on the archaeology, anthropology, mythology, and history of collapse in complex societies.  Provides students with an in-depth understanding of major issues and challenges in studying the  dissolution and reformulation of complex societies in the ancient world.		

CAS AR 435: Topics in the Materiality of Ancient Mediterranean Religions
           			Investigates material traces and contexts of religion in the Greco-Roman world, including iconic,  architectural, votive, magical, and other archaeological remains; and draws on theories of space, image,  and ritual performance. Topics vary. Also offered as CAS RN 490.		

CAS AR 438: Seminar: Pompeii
           			An in-depth study of Pompeii and the other towns buried by Mount Vesuvius. All aspects of the Vesuvian  cities are examined, including urban planning and public architecture, private domestic and funerary  architecture, mural painting, mosaics, and sculpture. Also offered as CAS AH 438.		

CAS AR 450: Methods and Theory of Archaeology
           			An interdisciplinary course dealing with field and laboratory techniques, research methods, concepts and problems in archaeological theory, and formulation of research designs. 		

CAS AR 480: Archaeological Ethics and the Law
           			Ethical and legal issues for archaeologists. Topics include archaeology as a public interest; legal organization of archaeology; international approaches to heritage management; looting, collecting, and the antiquities market; maritime law and underwater archaeology; and cultural resource management in the United States. 		

CAS AR 491: Directed Study in Archaeology
           			Individual instruction and directed research in archaeology.		

CAS AR 492: Directed Study in Archaeology
           			Individual instruction and directed research in archaeology.		

CAS AR 503: Archaeological Field Methods: Survey and Excavation
