CAS RN 364: Buddhist Literature
	Focuses on Buddhist sutras and other literature to explore key issues of doctrine, philosophy, and praxis in the Theravada and Mahayana traditions of Buddhism. Topics include the Buddha's life, practicing the path, emptiness, and interdependence.		

CAS RN 368: American Evangelicalism
	Major trends in American Evangelicalism, from the colonial awakenings and religious reform to the  contemporary Christian Right. Focus on how evangelicals have negotiated and shaped central tenets of  American culture, including understandings of gender, race, performance, nation, sexuality, and  economics. Also offered as CAS HI 294.		

CAS RN 375: Culture, Society, and Religion in South Asia
	Ethnographic and historical introduction to the Indian subcontinent with a focus on the impact of religion on cultural practices and social institutions.		

CAS RN 382: History of Religion in Pre-Colonial Africa
	The study of the development of religious traditions in Africa during the period prior to European  colonialism. An emphasis on both indigenous religions and the growth and spread of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam in the continent as a whole. Also offered as CAS AA 382 and CAS HI 349.		

CAS RN 384: The Holocaust
	Background of German (and European) anti-Semitism. Rise of Nazism and early oppression, initial Jewish reaction, mechanics of destruction, ghettos, camps, world response and nonresponse, literature of the Holocaust, and religious implications. 		

CAS RN 385: Representations of the Holocaust in Literature and Film
	Questions of representation in literature and film about the Holocaust, including testimonial and fictive  works by Wiesel and Levi, Ozick, and others; films include documentaries and feature films. Discussions of  the Holocaust as historical reality, metaphor, and generative force in literature. Also offered as CAS XL  281.		

CAS RN 387: Anthropology of Religion
	Myth, ritual, and religious experience across cultures. Special attention to the problem of religious  symbolism and meaning, religious conversion and revitalization, contrasts between traditional and world  religions, and the relation of religious knowledge to science, magic, and ideology. Also offered as CAS AN  384.		

CAS RN 390: Archaeology in the Holy Land
           			In Israel, archaeology is part of current events. The study of remains from the Israelite to the Muslim  conquests (c. 1200 BCE -- 640 CE) to learn how material evidence created and still plays a role in a larger  historical drama. Also offered as CAS AR 342.		

CAS RN 396: Philosophy of Religion
	Critical survey of the manner in which philosophers over the centuries have evaluated the truth and value claims of various religions. Focus on Hegel and  the nineteenth-century emergence of "philosophy of  religion" as a subdiscipline of philosophy and theology.  		

CAS RN 397: Topics in Philosophy and Religion
	Topic for Fall 2014: Philosophy and the Future of Religion. Examines key questions in the contemporary  philosophy of religion, including the possibility of religion without God, "naturalized" or scientific views of  religion, religious pluralism, and inter-religious tolerance. Featuring visiting lecturers in fall Institute for  Philosophy and Religion lecture series. Also offered as CAS PH 456.		

CAS RN 410: Religion, Community, and Culture in Medieval Spain
	Interactions between Muslims, Christians, and Jews in medieval Europe's most religiously diverse region --  from the establishment of an Islamic al-Andalus in 711 CE to the final Christian "reconquest" of the  peninsula and expulsion of the Jews in 1492 CE. Also offered as CAS HI 410.		

CAS RN 412: Theology of Christian Mysticism
	A concentrated venture in philosophical theology. Lectures, reading, and discussion center on the thought, not the praxis, of selected major mystics in the Christian tradition. Overviews Greek philosophical backgrounds; closely examines Eckhart, Nicholas of Cusa, Boehme, and William Blake.  		

CAS RN 420: Maimonides
	A study of major aspects of the thought of Maimonides. Primary focus on the Guide of the Perplexed, with attention to its modern reception in works by Baruch Spinoza, Hermann Cohen, Leo Strauss, and others. Also offered as CAS PH 409.		

CAS RN 423: Core Texts and Motifs of World Religions: West
           			An intensive seminar in primary texts and key ideas of theology and religious philosophy as developed in  representative world religions: Judaism, Christianity, Islam. First course in a year-long sequence. Each  semester may be taken independently.		

CAS RN 424: Core Texts and Motifs of World Religions: East
           			An intensive seminar in primary texts and key ideas of theology and religious philosophy as developed in  representative world religions: Hinduism, Buddhism, Daoism, Confucianism. Second course in a year-long  sequence. Each semester may be taken independently.		

CAS RN 425: Topics in South Asian Religions
	Specific aspects of South Asian religions within a historical or comparative/phenomenological framework.  Topic for Fall 2014: Lived Islam. South Asian religions can be studied as textual traditions or as contextual  ones. This  seminar explores how Islam is lived on a daily basis by Muslims of the Indian Subcontinent.  Emphasis on orthopraxy over orthodoxy.		

CAS RN 427: Topics in American Religion
	Topic for Fall 2014: American Spiritual Autobiography. Exploration of the art of portraying the self in the  light of the divine in U.S. history with an emphasis on contemporary work. Possible authors include:  Thomas Merton, Swami Yogananda, Malcolm X, Ann Lamott, Richard Rodriguez, Elie Wiesel, Jarena Lee.		

CAS RN 429: Religion and Politics in South Asia
	Meets with CAS IR 429. Explores the relationship between religion and politics in pre-colonial, colonial,  and post-colonial South  Asia through readings of primary texts as well as debates on religious  reform/revival, nationalism, caste, and partition.		

CAS RN 430: Topics in East Asian Religions
	Topic for Fall 2014: Buddhism, the State, and Politics in East Asia. Analyzes models of the ideal Buddhist  ruler in China, Korea, and Japan and their behaviors both historically and in the present. Topics include  state patronage and persecution of Buddhism as well as Buddhist rebellions and resistance to state control.		

CAS RN 435: Women, Gender, and Islam
           			Investigates the way Muslim religious discourse, norms, and practices create and sustain gender and hierarchy in religious, social, and familial life. Looks at historical and contemporary challenges posed to these structures.		

