CAS IR 503: The U.S. in the Middle East
	Meets with CAS PO 503. Examines the historical development and present status of the United  States'  association with the Middle East: American commercial, economic, political, military, and  humanitarian  interests in the area and their interaction.		

CAS IR 505: Arms Control and Proliferation of Weapons
	Arms control and disarmament in modern diplomacy. International agreements. Global control and  dangers of proliferation of nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons. Impact of terrorism. Small arms and  conflict. New ideas in global arms control.		

CAS IR 506: India and the World: The Foreign Policy of a Rising Power
           			Today, India is a nuclear power with a huge and growing economy. This, along with the rise of China and 9/11, has catapulted India into the international limelight. This course examines India's rise, focusing on its foreign policy and international role. 		

CAS IR 507: Islam and Politics
	Investigates the origins and practices of prominent Islamists and grassroots Muslim political movements.  Emphasis is on the coevolution of states and religious movements, the emergence of religious democrats,  the dynamics of transnational mobilization, and recognizing politics in unusual places.		

CAS IR 508: Islamic Political Movements and U.S. Policy
	Studies the origin and impact of various revivalist Islamic political movements and their intersection with U.S. foreign policy. Examines their ideologies, their views of the West, and their contribution to the rise of terrorism.		

CAS IR 509: Islam in Middle East Politics
	Meets with CAS PO 556. Analysis of Islam in the classical and popular forms; examination of the  role of the Muslim religion in the international politics of the modern Middle East, especially Iran,  Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Lebanon, Syria, Iraq, and Libya; their interrelationships and their  attitudes toward the West.		

CAS IR 511: The Middle East Today
	A critical survey of the rise and development of modern nations, states, and economies in the Middle East and North Africa since 1900. Provides context and perspective essential for understanding contemporary issues (e.g., peace process, gender relations, religion's roles, democracy).		

CAS IR 513: Bureaucracy and Governance: A Comparative Inquiry
           			(Meets with CAS PO 525.) Bureaucracy is not only credited with underpinning economic development but  also blamed for corruption and inefficiency. Exploring both theory and comparative development, this  course looks at some of the most basic and important issues informing our understanding of governance.		

CAS IR 514: Empire and Power: British Foreign Policy, 1782-Present
	Meets with CAS HI 533. Examines the evolution of British foreign policy over time as well as the nature of Great Power rivalry. Key  themes include formulation of national diplomatic strategies, policy coordination, diplomatic vs. military  considerations, alliance politics, and policy over-stretch.		

CAS IR 516: Intelligence and Homeland Security
	Aspects of homeland security, including information and intelligence sharing, the role of first responders, the structure and functioning of the system, and defensive and operational aspects. No prior knowledge of intelligence or security issues required.		

CAS IR 517: Seminar in Russian and East European Politics
	Meets with CAS PO 543. Treatment of political and security issues in Eastern Europe and European parts of  former USSR in the crisis, transition, and contemporary periods; particular country and issue foci vary year  to year.		

CAS IR 518: Gender and War
	(Meets with CAS PO 583 and WS 345.) Examines gender constructions in world politics. Topics include gender biases in international relations theories, female and males roles in war, and rape as an instrument of warfare. Also assesses roles of women as leaders, actors, and objects of foreign policy. 		

CAS IR 520: The State and Public Purpose in Asia
	Meets with CAS PO 550. Explores how noncommunist Asian governments have attempted to  advance public purpose, and how organizational factors in countries' governments affect their  ability to do so. These questions are addressed in a comparative framework, considering theory  and cases. 		

CAS IR 521: Congress and National Security
	Examines the role and influence of Congress on the intelligence agencies of the US, Congress's oversight  of intelligence collection, counterintelligence, covert action and surveillance in relation to the executive  powers. Explores the influence of espionage on national security policy.		

CAS IR 523: Global Justice
	Meets with CAS PO 526. Charts the course of human development over history and inquires why the quality   of life varies so dramatically in the world today. Geographic, economic, cultural, and political factors are explored.		

CAS IR 524: The Cold War in Latin America
	Meets with CAS HI 524. Analyzes the Cold War as experienced in Latin America. Examines government  policies, social movements,  economic conditions, and power struggles across Latin America. Compares  episodes of direct and indirect  intervention by the United States as well as Latin American responses.		

CAS IR 527: Political Economy of China
	Meets with CAS PO 548. How did China implement economic reform? What were the progresses  and  limitations? How is China's political-economic development influencing the global system?  Discussions are  conducted in a comparative perspective. Countries of reference include Japan and  India.		

CAS IR 529: Cuba in Transition
	Analysis of the prospects for peaceful transition in Cuba and the pressures for greater openness and democratization today. Discussion of the factors that facilitated Castro's Revolution and of Cuba's continuing impact on the policies of the U.S. and other countries.		

CAS IR 531: Intercultural Communication
	Examines communicative problems that arise in contact between people from different cultural backgrounds in everyday life, social service encounters, and business transactions. Uses interdisciplinary approaches to study how verbal and nonverbal presentation, ethnic, gender, and cultural differences affect communication.		

CAS IR 534: Government and Politics of Contemporary Africa
	Meets with CAS PO 571. Analysis of independent black Africa; factors of continuity and change in modern  Africa, problems of political order, ambiguities of independence. Case studies of individual countries  selected for additional emphasis on specific issues and problems of developing countries. 		

