CAS PO 360: Introduction to Latin American Politics and International Relations
	(Meets with CAS IR 367.) Introduction to the patterns and complexities of Latin American politics and foreign policies. Focuses on the distinctive Latin American political experience and alternative explanations for it, including  colonization, the international economy, and human and material resource capacity and utilization. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 367.		

CAS PO 370: Soviet Politics, 1917-91
	Meets with CAS IR 363. Analysis of the structure and functioning of major political institutions - government bureaucracy, Communist party, and others - and polity-society relations during the 74 years of the USSR's existence. Prime focus is institutional rather than historical and deals with the Soviet political  "game" as it was played. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 363.		

CAS PO 371: The Politics of Post-Communist Russia
	(Meets with CAS IR 364.) Analysis of the emergent political forces, institutions, and alliances in the post- Soviet Russian Federation, against the background of the unresolved economic, ethnic, and social  problems that are the USSR's legacy to the "new Russia"; prospects for stabilization are assessed in the  context of the multiple crises facing Russia today. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the  course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 364.		

CAS PO 372: Russian and Post-Soviet Foreign Relations
	Meets with CAS IR 375. Decisive factors in the foreign relations of Russia and the other former Soviet republics, including  historical continuity and change, survival and change of ideology, domestic politics, economic and  geographical factors, military and external political considerations. The future of arms control, nuclear  weapons, the economy, and relations among the former republics are also examined. This course  cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered  CAS PO 375.		

CAS PO 377: Africa in International Politics
	Meets with CAS IR 351. Introduction to the international relations of post-colonial Africa. Core themes   include the politics of post-independence international alignments, the external causes and effects of   authoritarian rule, and Africa's role in the global political economy. This course cannot be taken for credit  in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 390.		

CAS PO 378: International Human Rights: Applying Human Rights in Africa
	Meets with CAS IR 352. Studies the growing international influence on politics of human rights principles,   documents, and organizations, drawing especially on African cases such as Congo, Zimbabwe, and Sudan.   Topics include universality vs. cultural relativism, individual vs. group rights, and issues in human rights   enforcement. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was  previously numbered CAS PO 587.		

CAS PO 380: Special Topics: International Relations in Political Science
	Two topics are offered Fall 2014. Students may take one or both for credit. Section A1: Wars, Peace, and  Diplomacy. Why do wars occur? What constitutes peace and how is it maintained? What are the virtues  and deficiencies of diplomacy as practitioners have sought to implement it? Readings center on  international politics texts and the U.S. foreign policy record. Also offered as CAS HI 280 A1. Section B1:  The Middle East in Crisis. Addresses the historical roots and modern patterns of internal and external  conflict across the MENA region. Specific topics include: the Arab Spring, dissent in Iran, Egypt's  transition, Syria's civil war, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, gender, religion, autocracy, sectarianism and  nuclear arms.		

CAS PO 381: History of American Foreign Relations since 1898
	Meets with CAS HI 287. Analysis of the history of American foreign policy from the perspective of the changing world and regional international systems; emphasis on the effect of these systems and the impact of America on the creation and operation of international systems. This course cannot be taken for  credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 366.  		

CAS PO 383: Making Sense of the World: Conceptual Foundations of International Relations
	(Meets with CAS IR 360.) Introduction to various analytical approaches for understanding the dynamics of  global interaction. Explores the variety of "worlds" made visible through the lens of theory. Fosters critical  thinking about how conceptual tools shape our understanding of the world and attempted solutions to  global problems. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 372.		

CAS PO 384: Global Governance and International Organization
	Meets with CAS IR 373. Provides an overview of major theoretical perspectives on the creation and function  of international organizations, comparative case studies of selected organizations, and an examination of  present and future roles of international organizations in selected issue areas. This course cannot be taken  for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 385.		

CAS PO 391: Classical to Early Modern Political Theory
	A text-oriented study of the principal political ideas of Plato, Aristotle, St. Augustine, St. Thomas Aquinas,  and Machiavelli. 		

CAS PO 392: Modern Political Theory
	Intensive study of the political philosophy of Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Mill, Marx, and Nietzsche. Classes  are generally a combination of lecture and discussion but also include formal debates, guest lectures, and  films. 		

CAS PO 393: The European Enlightenment
	Survey of the intellectual and social transformation of Europe from the 1680s to the French Revolution.   Readings draw on both eighteenth-century sources (including Voltaire, Diderot, Condorcet, Lessing, Smith,  and Hume) and recent work by historians. Also offered as CAS HI 215. This course cannot be taken for  credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 395.		

CAS PO 394: Catastrophe &amp; Memory
	Examines the ways in which catastrophes, both natural and social, enter into cultural memory. Goal is to   understand how events that seem to defy comprehension are represented in works of art and given a place in the memory of a culture. Also offered as CAS HI 221. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition  to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS PO 397.		

CAS PO 396: Philosophy of Gender and Sexuality
	Analyzes notions of gender and sexuality. Questions include: Are gender and sexual identity natural, or are they social constructions? How are they related to love and desire? Also offered as CAS PH 256.		

CAS PO 425: Seminar: State Building and Failure in the Developing World
	Considers the political significance of failed and fragile states in the developing world in the post-9/11  era. Students analyze historical patterns of state formation and its relevance in contemporary society. Also  offered as CAS SO 439.		

CAS PO 491: Directed Study in Political Science
           			Directed study conducted under the supervision of a faculty member in Political Science. 		

CAS PO 492: Directed Study in Political Science
           			Directed study conducted under the supervision of a faculty member in Political Science. 		

CAS PO 493: Independent Work in Political Science
	Open to upper division concentrators. Students have a minimum GPA of 3.2 with a 3.4 in the major plus the ability to do independent work in the judgment of the major faculty advisor. This course  cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS  PO 401.		

CAS PO 494: Independent Work in Political Science
	Open to upper division concentrators. Students have a minimum GPA of 3.2 with a 3.4 in the major plus the ability to do independent work in the judgement of the major faculty advisor. This course  cannot be taken for credit in addition to the course with the same title that was previously numbered CAS  PO 402. 		

