CAS ES 351: Paleoclimatology and Paleoceanography
           			Examines causes and effects of climate change throughout Earth's history. Topics    include ice age climates and glaciations; oceanic history; linkages between Arctic and    Antarctic ice sheets; tectonic effects; ice-core, coral, and marine sediment records; El    Niño, terrestrial extinctions. 		

CAS ES 360: Geodynamics I
           			(Meets with GRS ES 660.) Introduces basic physical principles of Earth's structure and  dynamics. Driving mechanisms and plate motion; reflection, refraction seismology,  magnetism, gravity and the Geoid, heat flow, tomography, mantle convection. Oceanic  and continental lithosphere in active tectonic regions.		

CAS ES 371: Introduction to Geochemistry
           			(Meets with GRS ES 671.) Chemical features of Earth and the solar system; geochemical cycles, reactions among solids, liquids, and gases; radioactivity and isotope fractionation; water chemistry; origins of ore deposits; applications of geochemistry to regional and global problems.		

CAS ES 401: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS ES 402: Senior Independent Work
           					

CAS ES 423: Marine Biogeochemistry
           			Oceanic nutrient and biogeochemical cycling in the context of the marine response to global change. Links between local and global scales are emphasized. Topics include oceanic productivity, iron limitation, and oceanic glacial-interglacial biogeochemistry. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion. (Offered alternate years.)		

CAS ES 424: Igneous and Metamorphic Petrology
           			Recognition and interpretation of common igneous and metamorphic rocks, both in hand sample and in thin section; the relationships between rocks and the tectonic environments in which they formed. Three hours lecture, three hours lab, and occasional field trips. 		

CAS ES 440: Marine Geology
           			Examines the evolution of ocean basins and marginal seas, changes in structure and composition of ocean basin throughout the last billion years, and the contribution of oceanic geological processes to the chemistry and biochemistry of earth.		

CAS ES 443: Terrestrial Biogeochemistry
           			The patterns and processes controlling carbon and nutrient cycling in terrestrial ecosystems. Links between local and global scales are emphasized. Topics include net primary production, nutrient use efficiency, and biogeochemical transformation. Meets with CAS BI 443/643.		

CAS ES 483: Geodynamics II: Fluids and Fluid Transport
           			Large- and small-scale phenomena in oceanic, atmospheric, and landsurface fluids. Properties of gases and liquids; surface body forces; statics; flow analysis; continuity and momentum conservation. Darcy's Law; potential, open channel, and geostrophic flow; dimensional analysis; diffusion, turbulence.		

CAS ES 491: Directed Study in Earth Sciences
           			Individual instruction and directed research of a selected topic.		

CAS ES 492: Directed Study in Earth Sciences
           			Individual instruction and directed research of a selected topic.		

CAS ES 505: Plate Tectonics and Kinematics
	Structure and geometry of lithospheric plates and plate boundaries; mechanisms of divergent, convergent, and transform boundaries; orthogonal and oblique subduction; triple junctions; mantle plumes, nature and origin of large igneous provinces and sedimentary basin, Phanerozoic orogenic belts.  		

CAS ES 514: Dynamic Landsurface Hydrology
		Land surface hydrology with emphasis on the unsaturated zone. Development and applications of physics governing transport of water, vapor, and heat in soils and the near surface atmosphere. Effects of vegetation, topography, and water table on runoff, evapotranspiration, and recharge.  (Offered alternate years.)		

CAS ES 534: Ice-Age Systems
		Paleo-evironmental analyses of global climate change during cold-Earth periods, from Pre-Cambrian  Snowball Earth to the last deglacial cycle; discussion of geochemical and geophysical proxies used in  climate reconstructions. Readings from primary literature; occasional field trips. (Offered alternate years.)		

CAS ES 535: Advanced Topics in Marine Geoscience
