STH TF 701: Introduction to Christian Traditions
	This first course of a two-course sequence provides a basic academic orientation to the Christian  movement through a survey of its history from antiquity through the Protestant Reformation. Lectures and  readings on the history of Christianity will be complemented by parallel lectures and readings on great  theologians of those times.  Emphasis is placed on increasing students' self-consciousness of their own  theological and religious identity, Christian or otherwise, relative to the first sixteen centuries of Christian  history. MDIV and MTS core requirement.		

STH TF 702: Christianity Engaging Modernity
	Continuation of TF 701. 		

STH TF 703: Practicing Faith
	Situated in the first semester of the MDiv program, the Practicing Faith courses aim: 1) to increase the   student's self-awareness of lived faith in dialogue with cultural and religious traditions and with attention   to formative spiritual and religious texts and practices; 2) to develop the student's ability to reflect critically   about practicing faith. MDiv Requirement (Optional for M.T.S.)   A1 (Choi)  This section will explore  personal and communal practices of faith through an analysis of leadership in the  context of culture,  religious traditions, and religious communities; and through learning how power,  authority and leadership  interact and are exercised in multicultural society.   B1 (Goto) Addressing practices at the personal,  congregational, and social levels, we will investigate the role of the  physical body in welcoming and  embracing God's kingdom, and our accent will be on enacting and  experiencing faith.    C1 (Hassinger)  This section explores leadership in the context of congregations and other organizations, grounded in   spiritual life practices as individuals and groups.  D1 (Schlauch) This section examines the incoherence of  faith as it shows itself the various ways we practice multiple  faiths, often professing a faith that is in  conflict with the faith we actually live. Practicing an increasingly  coherent faith involves examining,  critically reflecting upon, and consequently revising the varieties of  faiths each of us is practicing. 		

STH TF 704: Practicing Faith II
	Continuation of TF703.  		

STH TF 801: MTS Contextual Education Project
	This is a 4 credit Contextual Action and Reflection (CAR) Group specially designed for MTS students.  All  MTS students fulfill a contextual education requirement that incorporates 1) active as well as reflective  learning; 2) out-of-classroom as well as classroom learning; and 3) self-reflective learning in which  students become aware of their position in, and effect on, the contexts in which theological education and  religious leadership are performed and enacted. While this may be fulfilled through a standard contextual  education internship or an STH course-related travel seminar, this course affords students the opportunity  to design a customized, one-semester project that facilitates the integration of theory and practice as well  as vocational discernment and leadership development in religion and theology. Guidelines for developing  the project are available on the Contextual Education website at STH. Please contact the Contextual  education office for more information about the process for designing the project before you register for  this class.		

STH TF 805: Introduction to Theological Writing
	Because theology frequently makes use of multiple modes of discourse, rhetoric, and communication the   goal of this class will be to exercise maximal control of written expression, primarily through the practice   of essay writing. With close attention to grammar, syntax, diction, rhetoric and argument, students will   work to develop both their prose style and their approach to theological writing. Students enrolled in this   course will study, discuss, and evaluate a wide range of prose styles peculiar to theological discourse. The   course will also include three writing seminars by Professor Kathe Pfisterer Darr.		

STH TF 808: Travel Seminar: Jazz in the City
	STH TF 808 N1:  "Jazz in the City"  Using New York City as a laboratory, this course focuses on collaborative   strategies for urban ministries, urban congregational development, and practical, theoretical, and   theological methods for thinking about the urban condition and the church's response to it and   engagement with it.  Section R1 has been cancelled for Summer/Fall 2014		

STH TF 810: Global and Community Engagement Capstone
	MDiv students on the Global and Community Engagement track design a customized  practicum or seminar   with the help of their advisor that serves as an integrative  capstone course and culmination of their degree   program.  		

STH TF 811: Church and the Arts Capstone
	MDiv students on the Church and the Arts track design a customized practicum or  seminar with the help of their advisor that serves as an integrative capstone  course and the culmination of their degree program.  		

STH TF 820: Dual Degree CAR Group (MTS/SSW)
	This is a 1 credit Contextual Action and Reflection (CAR) Group specially designed for MTS/SSW Dual  Degree Students.  All MTS students fulfill a contextual education requirement that incorporates 1) active as  well as reflective learning; 2) out-of-classroom as well as classroom learning; and 3) self-reflective  learning in which students become aware of their position in, and effect on, the contexts in which  theological education and religious leadership are performed and enacted.  This course facilitates the  integration of theory and practice as well as vocational discernment and leadership development in religion  and theology. Dual degree MTS students take this CAR group course alongside their SSW required  internship. Please contact the office of Contextual Education form more information before you register for  this course.		

STH TF 821: Contextual Education I (Dual Degree)
	Integration of Theology and Practice (ITP) reflection groups for STH-SSW dual degree students in their   advanced placements. Offered fall semester. 1 credit. MDIV CORE REQUIREMENT.		

STH TF 822: Contextual Education II (Dual Degree)
	Continues and presupposes STH TF821 for STH-SSW dual degree students. Offered spring semester. 1   credit. MDIV CORE REQUIREMENT.		

STH TF 901: Doctoral Colloquium 1
	All first-year ThD and PhD students at STH are required to take this two-semester doctoral colloquia   associated with the Doctoral Research and Teaching Internship Program (DTRIP). The colloquia focus on (1)   research methods, (2) teacher training, and (3) professional identity.		

STH TF 902: Doctoral Colloquium 2
	The continuation of TF901.		

STH TH 569: Rel Hist Boston
	The Greater Boston area contains one of the richest historical legacies in the United States. This course examines distinctive aspects of that historical legacy, by focusing upon the religious history of Boston. The course will include selected visits to specific Boston area historical sites. For undergraduate students only. 		

STH TH 802: Christianity Beyond Early Modern Europe
	The course is dedicated to an in depth study of the reach of Christianity in the early modern period (c.    1450-c.1650). Our narrative follows the path of early modern Catholicism from fifteenth-century Europe,    through the ascent of the Portuguese and Spanish seaborne empires, and examines the role of the    missionary religious orders in the processes of Christianization and inculturation. (Requires TF 701/702 or   equivalent)		

STH TH 812: The Church in Late Antiquity
	The development of the Christian Church, its institutions, theology, and social  and political roles, from  Constantine to Charlemagne, in the context of the  transformations of late antique culture and society, East  and West.  COUNTS AS A  MDIV CHURCH HISTORY II CORE REQUIREMENT. (Requires TF 701 or equivalent)		

STH TH 817: Varieties of Ancient Christianity
	Surveys the many different and often competing forms of Christianity that arose  and flourished in the  second to the seventh century, from the "apostolic period"  to the Arab conquest in the Middle East.   It is  highly recommended that students  have taken at least one prior course in biblical or New Testament  literature.		

STH TH 820: History of Western Christian Spirituality
	An introduction to the historical study of Western Christian spiritual  practices. The course exposes    students to the historical-critical study of  spiritual practices through careful examination of selected    narratives of  Western Christian spirituality, primary texts, and participatory observation.  Participants will    learn to analyze spiritual practices--such as reading,  fasting, and prayer--by the twofold process of    "abstracting/isolating" practices  and "reading/interpreting" them in their historical context. While    emphasis will  be placed on the synchronic interpretation of practices, due attention will also  be given to    their development over time. Readings will include selected articles  representative of current methodology    in the field. Participants will gain a  better understanding of continuity and change of spiritual practices in    Western  Christian traditions. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TH 821: History and Doctrine of United Methodism
	An exploration of Methodist origins, the Wesleys, the rise of Methodism in England, and the distinctive  doctrines of Wesleyan theology. There is a particular focus on the development of the various United  Methodist traditions in America and their impact on society. The course is designed to meet one of the  requirements for membership in a UMC Annual Conference. 		

