STH TC 801: Contextual Education I
	Supervised practice of ministry in a congregational setting or community agency  combined with    participation in a peer reflection-learning group focused on the integration of theology and practice. MDIV    CORE REQUIREMENT. Background check is required.		

STH TC 802: Contextual Education II
		Graduate Prerequisites: STH TC 801. Continues and presupposes STH TC 801 in the spring semester. MDIV   CORE REQUIREMENT. Background check is required. 		

STH TC 803: Contextual Education III
	Normally continues STH TC 802 (see course description for TC 801).  Can be taken for variable credit.		

STH TC 804: Field Education IV
	Normally continues STH TC 803.		

STH TC 807: UMC General Conference
	The quadrennial General Conference is the chief legislative body of the United Methodist Church. This  course provides students with the opportunity to examine the critical role of the General Conference in the  United Methodist tradition. In addition to examining the General Conference's impact upon the historical  and theological identity of United Methodism, the course explores specific doctrinal, polity, and social  issues that are on the agenda of the General Conference in the semester in which the course is offered. The  course allows students the option of receiving additional credit for attending part of the General  Conference sessions.		

STH TC 808: Sermon Studio
	This class will be conducted like a studio class in theatrical performance where students are encouraged to take risks, be creative, and get immediate and interactive feedback on their work.  While the sermon is not a performance piece, we deliver sermons to a culture that demands performance quality work from professional orators.  Therefore, as preachers, we must approach the sermon with diligence, earnestness, and willingness to rigorously practice the craft.  The Sermon Studio is a class designed to help students of homiletics further develop and practice the art form.  Each three hour class will begin with a teaching topic from the primary text, and then we will have four to five half-hour segments for students to workshop sermons and get immediate feedback on their work.  The goal of the class is to have students get up and preach as frequently as possible, so that they become more comfortable and adept with the art form.  The class will seek to create an environment that emphasizes creativity, regular practice, and feedback as the primary means of developing artful and effective sermons.  		

STH TC 810: The Pastoral Life
	This class is intended to help seminarians entering pastoral ministry develop effective strategies that will allow them to fully enjoy the richness and beauty of their vocation.  		

STH TC 811: Pastoral Leadership
	The aim of the course is to prepare the student, at the basic professional  level, in the primary forms of pastoral leadership.  On completing the course,  the student should have gained professional confidence and reflective competence  in these areas of pastoral leadership:  conversation and visitation; preaching  and teaching; stewardship and development; administration and lay preparation;  conflict resolution and systems analysis; evangelism and youth\children's  ministry.  		

STH TC 813: Spirituality and Ministry in Multicultural Contexts
	This course examines Christian spirituality as it is related to ministry in  multicultural contexts. Drawing upon different contexts in which church ministry  is engaged, the course explores how spirituality is situated and developed in  those contexts. The course also focuses on how to practice "contemplative  ministry" in congregational settings.		

STH TC 814: The Jazz of Preaching: How to Preach with Great Freedom and Joy
	An exploration of preaching preparation and performance in dialogue with the jazz  hallmarks of improvisation, call and response, swing, and other central elements  of  jazz. Special emphasis will be placed on cultivating preaching imagination,  creativity, and joy. Course includes in-class preaching.   		

STH TC 816: Homiletical Options and Homiletic Analysis
	This course is an advanced homiletics seminar that in alternate years either reviews contemporary    homiletic theory ("Homiletical Options") or explores practices of sermon analysis ("Homiletical Analysis").     Pre-requisite: TC715 ("Introduction to Preaching") or its equivalent.		

STH TC 817: Introduction to Christian Worship
	An introduction to the spirit and structure of Christian worship. Word,  sacraments, calendar, music, and  pastoral offices are analyzed and described in  terms of their relevance to congregational life, spirituality,  catechesis, and  mission.		

STH TC 819: The Sacraments: Rites and Theologies
	Contemporary study of the sacraments brings together ritual studies, liturgical  history, the history of dogma, and systematic reflection. This course examines the  baptismal and eucharistic rites of the Church, both past and present, along with  theological rationales of and commentaries on them offered by ecclesiastic writers  of the patristic, medieval, Reformation, and modern periods.		

STH TC 821: The Gospel and Empire
	This course explores the relationship between Christianity and empire both  historically and theologically. While the broader context for the course is the  mutual shaping of empire and Christianity as the Christian movement has spread  throughout the world, Cuba will provide a case study for reflecting on how this  shaping has taken place on that island in relation to particular imperial  influences.		

STH TC 823: Spiritual Guidance in the Christian Tradition
	Are you seeking a "word of life"? Do you hunger to know more about the wisdom of  Christian spiritual traditions? Do you feel called to grow in your ability to  guide others? In this course students will explore selected writings from the  Christian tradition -- both classic and contemporary. They will read the pithy  sayings of the early desert abbas and ammas, the gentle counsel of Francis de  Sales, the spiritual teaching of John Wesley and his mother Susanna, and the  insights of the Russian pilgrim who wanted to pray without ceasing. They will  analyze the various theological commitments reflected in these authors'  spiritual teachings, and place them in their historical contexts. Then they will  move to contemporary texts about the practice of spiritual guidance, addressing  concerns such as spiritual direction of women, group spiritual direction,  prayer, and cross-cultural spiritual guidance.		

STH TC 825: Prayer and Social Engagement
	The seminar will address the relationship between prayer and social engagement.  Prayer and social engagement often are separated entirely, or wedded  uncritically. In this course, students will seek to deepen their prayer lives  while thinking critically about the social situation. They will wrestle with the  multiple theological questions surrounding prayer and social engagement. Topics  will be approached using selected case studies from international contexts. By  delving into the cases, students will see different models for how prayer can  inspire a social vision, cultivate a social conscience, respond to social  crisis, ground people's dignity, and promote reconciliation. 		

STH TC 828: Women's Theologies and Ministry
	This course will examine the reality of women in ministry, critically evaluating  how women's identities and roles have been structured in Christian contexts. It  will also carefully analyze how these identities and roles can be re-evaluated  and how women's ministry can be envisioned in this modern ministerial context.  Drawing on different women's theological perspectives and identities, the course  will focus mainly on women and ministry in the areas of biblical studies,  worship, preaching, and pastoral care and counseling.		

STH TC 829: Spiritual Autobiographies
	In the course, students will explore classic and contemporary spiritual  autobiographies. These autobiographies reveal the diverse paths of religious  seekers, the crises and epiphanies that became focal points of meaning and  revelation. Students will learn about the practices of faith that sustained and  challenged religious people from Augustine to Teresa of Avila to Tolstoy.  Through close, empathetic, and critical examination of the texts, students will  reflect on their own spiritual journeys and identities. They also will engage  first-hand in the crafting of spiritual autobiography, and students will have  the opportunity to work intensively in small groups throughout the writing and  sharing process. Throughout the course, students will explore potential uses of  spiritual autobiography as pathways of discernment and growth in congregational  and retreat settings, small faith groups, spiritual formation and companionship.  		

STH TC 833: Sung Faith
	From the beginning, the Church has sung its faith. In this course the doctrine  of the Trinity is the focus of an examination of "lyrical theology."  Hymn texts  constitute the primary documents; secondary texts by writers from the patristic  period to the present guide reflection and analysis.  The goals of the course  are: (1) to increase the appreciation for hymn texts as theological statements;  (2) to gain a deeper knowledge of the mystery of the triunity of God; and (3) to  promote a greater awareness of the doctrine of the Trinity as crucial to the  faith of the Church and central its life.		

STH TC 835: Evangelism and Contemporary Cultures
	This course explores the practice of bearing faithful, visible, and embodied  witness to God's  commonwealth in contemporary contexts and cultures. The course  covers the biblical, historical, and  theological foundations of evangelism, its  practice within congregational life, and contextual strategies. 		

