STH TS 837: Comparative Religious Ethics
	Philosophical and religious perspectives in the meaning of the good life and the good society. Comparative study of social ethics in Christianity and other world religions with particular attention to one or two selected contemporary issues, such as the erosion of community, economic problems, humanity's relationship to the environment, and human rights. 		

STH TS 840: Seminar in Religion and Social Change
	An exploration of the relationship between religion and social change, including the problems of modernization and globalization. Particular attention to the ways in which religion either supports the status quo or promotes social change, involving such problems as fundamentalist and utopian movements in the worldwide and contemporary setting.		

STH TS 845: Christian Social Ethics
	Comparative study of historical and contemporary Christian approaches to the nature, sources, methods,  and concepts of ethics in diverse contexts. The course is in two parts: an historical overview of the  development of Christian social ethics from biblical times to the twenty-first century; an in-depth  exploration of approaches to specific contemporary social issues including war and peace, ecology,  economic justice, and equality. 		

STH TS 854: The Boston University Ethical Tradition
	This seminar is designed to orient participants to the BU tradition in theology   and ethics that has its roots in the 19th century. We will consider the Boston   Personalists beginning with Borden Parker Bowne, John Wesley Edward Bowen, and   especially the work of Edgar S. Brightman, as well as the later Personalists --  Albert C. Knudson and Francis McConnell. We will also explore the works of   Georgia Harkness, L. Harold DeWolf, Peter Bertocci, and in particular, Walter   Muelder (and the Moral Law tradition). There is an emphasis on Howard Thurman   and his impact on BU, as well as the influence of the BU ethical tradition on   the life and work of Martin Luther King, Jr. We will also consider the ethics of   contemporary exponents of the BU ethical tradition. Throughout the seminar,   there is consideration given to the philosophical and theological roots of the   BU ethical tradition as well as its social, economic, and political   applications. This tradition is based on the belief in a personal God who cares   about people, and made each person in the divine image-endowed with inherent   value, worth and dignity. This is a central message of the BU ethical tradition,   and in the seminar, we will look at is foundations as well as its evolution, and   also why that tradition historically was attractive to Black graduate students   in theology and social ethics.		

STH TS 862: Global Ethics in Cultural Contexts
	An in-depth study of distinctive approaches to economic, ethnic, gender and   political justice in diverse regions: North America, Latin America, Africa, Asia   and Israel/Palestine.  Liberation theology perspectives - African American,   Feminist, Womanist, Mujerista, Latin American, Native American, Asian, African,   Jewish and Palestinian - will provide bases for developing transcultural social   ethics.  		

STH TS 863: Ethical Leadership and African American Moral Traditions
	This seminar is designed to acquaint students with major figures, movements, and issues in black  American religious, social, cultural and ethical traditions. The seminar, which focuses heavily on leadership  emerging from 19th and 20th century black culture, examines African American leadership from a  narrative perspective, utilizing primary and secondary source materials; explores theoretical and practical  elements of leadership in specific historical contexts; evaluates competencies traditionally associated with  African American leadership practices; and offers a forum for practical engagement with contemporary  problems associated with African American life and culture.		

STH TS 867: Christianity and Ecology in Community Contexts
	A study of Christian and Native American spiritual insights related to  ecological perspectives, principles,  and practices. Student classroom sessions,  research, and analysis will be complemented by field work:  engagement with  members of faith traditions and environmental organizations in the Boston area.   Writings of theologians and ecologists, statements from individual denominations  and ecumenical  associations, teachings of native elders, and the relationship of  the proposed Earth Charter to religious  teachings and current ecological issues  will be discussed. Economics, ethics, and ecology will be  integrated with the  evolving School of Theology Green Vision statement, its implementation on  campus,  and its engagement in projects with community organizations and faith  communities off-campus.		

STH TS 877: The Principles and Practices of Restorative Justice
	A study of the fundamental principles and practices of restorative justice as applicable to church and  society. The course explores the needs and roles of key stakeholders (victims, offenders, communities,  justice systems), outlines the basic principles and values of restorative justice, introduces some of the  primary models of practice, and identifies challenges to restorative justice and strategies to respond to  them. The course is organized around the issue of crime and harm within a western legal context, but  attention is given to applications in other contexts. Of particular interest is the contribution of traditional  or indigenous approaches to justice as well as applications in post-conflict situations. 		

STH TS 889: Sacred Earth: Indigenous Peoples' Ecological Traditions
	A study of indigenous peoples' traditional teachings about the relationship of  spirituality, ecology, and  community well-being. A particular focus will be the  words and works of representative twentieth-century  writers and spiritual  leaders, and include the life and teachings of Lakota elder Black Elk; Muskogee  elder  Phillip Deere; Wanapum elder David Sohappy; and Dakota scholar and  activist Vine Deloria, Jr. 		

STH TS 893: Spirit, Science, and Space: Cosmoethics
	The discoveries of Copernicus/Galileo and Darwin (19th century) significantly altered scientific and    religious worldviews. People experienced a sense of displacement from their previously perceived status  in   the universe. In the 21st century, as space explorations expand, Contact with extraterrestrial life--    including intelligent life--becomes ever more possible (some people already claim to have had visual or    physical contact with UFOs and their alien occupants). Using perspectives from science, science fiction,    religion, and United Nations space treaties, and narratives about peoples' claims of encounters with    extraterrestrial beings, this course will discuss current and projected understandings of the human  place   in the cosmos; reflect on how discovery of extraterrestrial life might impact the human sense of  place in   the universe; and consider how the impacts of ET encounters (actual or theoretical) might be  positively   incorporated into human consciousness and contexts.		

STH TS 894: Being Church in the 21st Century: Congregational Clinic
	This course is a 2-credit teaching-learning laboratory, rooted in Boston University School of Theology's     Religion and Conflict Transformation Program, and focused on collaborative teaching and learning in    areas  of congregational change, conflict, wholeness and healing in the twenty-first century.   Rooted in    theological and biblical foundations, this course will have a particular emphasis on a relational     understanding of congregations, sacraments as core to shalom and reconciliation, the nature of    community  and naming and dealing with issues of power and authority.  This course expects mutual    sharing and  learning among the various participants.   		

STH TS 896: Religion, Economics, and the Common Good
	A study of the relationship between religion, economics, and societal well-being,  particularly as explored  in the presentation and critique of a "Protestant  ethic." The subsequent integration of political, economic,  sociological, and  religious insights will provide a foundation for the formulation of community- based and  community-oriented social institutions. 		

STH TS 897: Ethics and Public Policy
	The purpose of this course is to help students gain knowledge of and appreciation for the theological,  ethical, and socio-analytic dimensions of public policy and how to integrate those elements in their  descriptive and prescriptive analyses of specific social problems.		

STH TS 899: The Continuing Relevance of Aristotle's Ethics and Politics
	This seminar will undertake a close reading and a critical inquiry into Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics and   Politics  in order to discern how his thought can be a helpful resource for the study and practice of ethics   and politics in our day.		

STH TS 903: Models of Community
	TBA		

STH TS 925: Advanced Ecological Ethics
	An in-depth study of cross-disciplinary, cross-religious, and cross-cultural approaches to ecological    issues, oriented toward understanding diverse issues in breadth and depth; and a collaborative, creative    development of ecological ethical concepts and principles proposed to inform and be integrated into    human consciousness and communities, and implemented in community projects.		

STH TS 929: Christian Ecological Ethics and Political Issues
	This course will introduce students to the character and dimensions of the  ecological crisis and will; to help them reflect theologically and ethically on  ecological problems, to develop or enhance their particular faith tradition's  theoretical and practical engagement with ecological issues, gain knowledge of  the intersection of ecology and economics, and political and public policy  implications of this relationship, and to formulate public policy possibilities  and practical projects to address and seek to solve ecological problems.		

STH TS 950: History of the Social Teachings of the Church
	This seminar will explore the development of the social teachings of the Church  from the time of Jesus through the 20th century.  The works of E. Troeltsch and  H.R. Niebuhr will be relied upon, with a focus on the development of the early  Christian social teachings, the medieval synthesis, the Reformation era, and  especially the rise of urban-industrial capitalism and its impact on the social  teachings of the Churches. Special emphasis will be given to the major events of  the 19th century such as the abolition of slavery as well as the beginnings of  the women's suffrage movement and other dimensions of the liberation of women. 		

STH TS 951: Contemporary Social Teachings for the Christian Church
	An in-depth study of major contemporary social issues, utilizing the works of key Christian social ethicists, as expressed in the Protestant, Anglican, Eastern Orthodox, and Roman Catholic traditions and in theologies of liberation. Issues such as sexuality and human reproduction, war and peace, economic and social justice, racism, gender, social class, and the use/misuse and protection of natural resources, will be viewed through the perspective of different religious traditions. Special emphasis will be placed on ecumenical and interfaith social ethics, the rise and significance of the Christian Right, and development of the tools needed to do social ethics in different social and cultural contexts. 		

STH TS 957: Seminar: the Church and Human Rights
	Philosophical, religious, and social problems of defining human rights and the related ideas of human dignity, justice, and the common good. Special attention to comparative understanding of human rights in Confucianism, Christianity, and Islam, exploring an alternative economic order and society that would serve the human person.		

