STH TT 832: Paul Tillich
	Centered on one of the major theological works of the twentieth century, the Systematic Theology, this  course is designed to assist students to contextualize, interpret, and analyze the thought of Paul Tillich  and to assess its significance for contemporary theology. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 833: Religion and Science
	Explores recent developments in the theoretical and cultural relations between religion and science, paying  particular attention to strategies for moving beyond the limitations of the pervasive ?conflict? view. No  specific background in science required. Focuses primarily, though not exclusively, on the interaction  between Christian thought and the natural sciences. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 837: Doing Theology in a Global Context
	Methodological course which aims to construct a theological method that is appropriate and helpful to   theologians and pastors in a post-colonial and globalized world.  This would involve mapping the   global/post-colonial context and examining the various sources, methods, and norms of theology in light   of this new context. Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 838: Religious Thought: Happiness East and West
	What is happiness? How can we achieve a balanced, healthy, flourishing life?  Classical thinkers such as  Aristotle, Plato, Chuang Tzu; Stoic, Epicurean,  Confucian, Buddhist paths; comparison with contemporary  happiness studies. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 840: Images of Christ in World Christianity
	This is a course in Christology, approached from a world Christianity  perspective.  I introduce students to   a variety of images of Christ from all  over the world - mostly in the form of paintings, sculptures, and   other pieces  of art and some writings - and help them to reflect on the content and method of    christological reflection.  This is done without neglecting the African-American  and Feminist/Womanist   concerns. Students are given the option of turning in a  piece of art portraying their own image of Christ in   lieu of a final paper. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 841: Christian Encounters with Hinduism
	This course begins with a survey of Hinduism - its history, beliefs, and  practices - and moves on to trace  the history of Hindu-Christian encounter both  in India and the US.  Three pieces of writing are studied as  samples of  encounter - my book on The Crucified Guru, John Thatamanil's book The Imminent  Divine,  and Francis Clooney's Christian God, Hindu God.  The course ends with  examining the various theologies  of religions and constructing a appropriate  theological stance for a healthy encounter with Hindus today.   The course will  involve both visit to Hindu temple, and meeting Hindus as guest speakers in the  class.  (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 842: Lab Placement
	This is a course for students in a variety of Boston University School of Theology and Division of Religious  and Theological Studies degree programs who are registered for laboratory placements. It is not available  to students at other schools in the Boston Theological Institute.		

STH TT 844: War and the Human: Theological Responses to 21st century War
	What motivates us to fight? What are the practices of war saying about who we are, as persons and as a   nation? What is the impact of war? This course brings theological insights to bear on current practices of   war. Beginning with analysis of the dimensions of 21st century war, we will explore perennial human   questions raised within the context of war: love/hate, shame/guilt, conscience, justice, community,   identity, and death. This course aims to deepen theological exploration and also seeks to empower   students to develop constructive theological responses to war. The course focuses on current practices  of  war by the U.S. and features site-visits and engagements with different sectors of society directly  involved  in war/healing work.  Topics addressed include: terror &amp; the role of religion in war post 9/11;  religion in  the military (chaplains, race, class, gender, religious pluralism); the discourse of war - just  war, pacifism;  technology, intelligence, &amp; the media; trauma and war; the function of race, class, and  gender in war;  peace, protest, and religious communities. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 845: Spirituality, Medicine &amp; Health
	The general aim of this science-religion course is to learn about the complex entanglements among  religious traditions and spirituality, medical traditions and healing modalities, and norms for physical and  mental health.  This will involve (i) in Part 1 of the course, gaining a basic grasp on the history of the  medical traditions of China, India, the Middle East, and the West, including the metaphysical frameworks  that inform those traditions; (ii) in Part 2 of the course, studying the complex controversy over spirituality  and health research and attempting to decide whether and how the efficacy of healing modalities is to be  evaluated; (iii) in Part 3 of the course,  understanding how western biomedicine interacts with the array of  medical traditions and spiritually inspired healing modalities that thrive in the West; and (iv) throughout the  course, addressing philosophical, theological,  and ethical questions about norms for mental and physical  health and comparing metaphysical frameworks for health and healing.  The class is intended for advanced  masters students and doctoral candidates interested in the science-religion dialogue, and particularly in  spirituality and health. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 849: Queer Theology
	This course examines the emergence of queer theology as it has been derived from queer theory and    LGBTQ social justice activists. It will acquaint students with the history of the term "queer", its challenges,    its reappropriation and the impact queer theology is having on the Christian faith and practices. We will    especially investigate how "queering" may contribute to theology as academic discipline, church practice    and as an instrument of social justice. This course will privilege an intersectional analysis. (Requires TF  701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 852: Theological Thinking for Everyday Life and Ministry
	This course aims to teach theological thinking by doing a lot of it. The class is designed to place the  specific experiences of participants in conversation with each other and with the wisdom of the authors of  the readings. The aim is to become more effective theological thinkers. (Requires TF 701/702 or  equivalent)		

STH TT 854: Classic Jewish Thought
	This course investigates basic human and religious issues as they have been  understood in the classical  Jewish tradition: creation and revelation, good and  evil, the nature of suffering, the relationship between  God and human beings,  and the relationships of human beings to one another. We will explore these   issues through investigation of sources from the Bible, midrashic literature,  Talmud, and Jewish  philosophy.  Special attention to the role of Torah and its  interpretation in Jewish life and thought.  (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 855: Theology of Christian Mysticism
		A concentrated venture in philosophical theology.  This lecture, reading and discussion course centers on   the thought, not the praxis, of selected major mystics in the Christian tradition.  Overviews Greek   philosophical backgrounds then moves to a close examination of Eckhart, Nicolas of Cusa, Boehme, and   William Blake. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 856: Preaching for the Modern World: Preaching Theological Challenges
	Consideration of the ways in which the contexts of preaching today differ from those in which the familiar  formulations of theology came into being as well as the theological implications of the differences.  (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 857: Postmodern Theology and Spirituality
	This course examines the impact of philosophers like Nietzsche, Foucault, Levinas, Irigaray, and Derrida on  the study of theology. Rather than shutting down a religious conversation, theologians within this tradition  argue that postmodern thought opens up religious questions in new ways. What does postmodernism  reveal about religious confessions and practices? How does this conversation help us to understand some  of the shifts in spirituality and religious practice in our contemporary world? (John Caputo, Mark C. Taylor,  Catherine Keller, and Mark D. Jordan). (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 858: Theologies of Dialogue
		An examination of the major contemporary theological options proposed for the theory and practice of   dialogue by the churches and theological communities. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 861: Varieties of Religious Naturalisms
	The aim of this seminar is to learn about varieties of religious naturalism and how they have been, and     can be, incorporated into philosophical and theological reflection. The seminar will read a variety of  works    in contemporary religious naturalism, from twentieth-century classics to current contributions,  and from    theoretical analyses of the meaning of naturalism to surveys attempting to map out the  territory of    plausible viewpoints. We will also track the close relationship between religious naturalism  and both    ecologically-rooted forms of spirituality and nature-centered forms of mysticism. (Requires TF 701/702 or  equivalent)		

STH TT 862: Theologies of Liberation
	Theologies of liberation originated in the mid-twentieth century and have  continued in various forms and  contexts on into the twenty-first century. This  course examines some of the classic texts in Latin  American, Asian, Hispanic,  Black, Womanist, Queer, and Feminist liberation theology and aims at an   understanding of their sources, methods, hermeneutic, and primary themes. (Requires TF 701/702 or  equivalent)		

STH TT 865: Religious Dimensions of Whitehead's Philosophy
	A detailed study of Whitehead's physical and metaphysical thought provides a framework for a formal  consideration of his religious ideas. Hartshorne's transformation of Whitehead's metaphysical and religious  ideas into pantheism. Philosophical ideas in process theology. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 866: Feminist and Womanist Theologies
	Feminist and womanist theologians provide some of the sharpest theological  analyses of the ways in which  power functions both within and outside of  religious institutions. This course explores these contributions  to an  understanding of power, both divine and human, and the ways in which practices  and professions of  religious traditions can be both death-dealing and life- giving. How does power operate on bodies, in  institutions, in global markets?  What is the fuel "the power" necessary for social change and  transformation?  Examining critical moments in 20th century movements of liberation, this course  draws  on theory, theology, literature, and media to give theological depth and  understanding to religious claims  about love, power, and justice. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

