STH CT 800: Field Practicum
	This course encourages theology students to take advantage of opportunities for    practical experience in area churches and/or other related organizations as an    extension of their theological training in the School of Theology. A credit-   bearing course, Field Practicum is established as an elective course that can be    taken for one-half credit in any semester. Any student may enroll in CT 800 for   a  maximum of four semesters, or 2 total credits. A maximum of 2 credits can be    applied to degree requirements for a master's-level degree (MDiv, MTS, MSM) as    free electives. These elective credits may not be substituted for major or minor    coursework in a STM, DMin, ThD, or PhD program but can augment any of these    post-master's degrees.		

STH DM 901: Transformational Leadership
	This course explores diverse perspectives and practices of religious leadership and community   transformation, drawing upon recent research and literature in dialogue with participants' experiences as   community leaders. Students will explore their personal leadership strengths and goals, theological   perspectives and social science findings as regards leadership and transformation, and the insights of   living communities. The purpose is to engage with critical issues and to construct new approaches to   leadership that can contribute to thriving and society-serving communities.		

STH TA 710: Music in World Religions I: The Abrahamic Traditions (Judaism, Christianity,  Islam)
	Music is an integral part of the liturgies of almost every major religion. It is  a traditional element of many rituals connected with the life cycle, and is  often used as a way of mediating one's relationship to God. This course seeks to  put both religion and its music in cultural and historical context. It will use  interdisciplinary methodologies including theological studies and musical  analysis. It aims to provide a basic framework for understanding the issues  surrounding the duties and practices, rituals, scriptures, articles of faith,  holy days, prayers, and denominational differences for each religion in a way  that is comprehensible to the non-musician. 		

STH TA 711: Music of the World's Religions II: The Asian Traditions (Hinduism, Buddhism,   Sikkhism)
	Music is an integral part of the liturgies of almost every major religion. It is  a traditional element of many rituals connected with the life cycle, and is  often used as a way of mediating ones relationship to God. This course seeks to  put both the religion and its music in cultural and historical context. It will  be using interdisciplinary methodologies including theological studies and  musical analysis. It aims to provide a basic framework for understanding the  issues surrounding the duties and practices, rituals, scriptures, articles of  faith, holy days, prayers and denominational differences for each religion in a  way that is comprehensible to the non-musician.  Musical training is preferred  but not essential.		

STH TA 715: Organ Seminar
	Intended for organ majors, but open to others, this course covers repertoire, organ building and   maintenance, technique, performance practice, and keyboard skills (sight-reading, score-reading,   transposition, harmonization, improvisation and continuo). This is a two semester course. MSM organ   majors must enroll in both semesters.		

STH TA 721: Seminary Singers
	Open to all students who are interested in singing. Participation in one weekly  chapel service, all concerts,  and tours. Credit given only on completion of the  second consecutive semester's work. 		

STH TA 722: Seminary Singers
	Open to all students who are interested in singing. Participation in one weekly   chapel service, all concerts, and tours. Credit given only on completion of the   second consecutive semester's work. 		

STH TA 801: Methods and Materials in Sacred Music (online)
	Students will critically engage with materials and approaches in the principal areas of present-day church   musicians including: choral and vocal techniques, conducting, the organ and other instruments, alternative   and contemporary worship, and professional concerns. This course will enable students to gain greater  competencies needed to function at optimal levels as a  music minister or director in worship, religious,  pastoral and educational settings. This will be  accomplished through engagement with the methods and  materials of church/synagogue (sacred) music  and worship.  		

STH TA 804: Seminar: Anthems for the Church Choir
	Historical survey of music repertory for American church choirs: study of performance of various periods and genres of music. Consent of instructor with special consideration given to MSM and SFA students.		

STH TA 805: Music Ministry for Church Leaders
	Music ministry is an essential part of a healthy church, providing beauty in worship, means of community   and avenues for evangelism. This course offers methods and materials to help you integrate, develop,   support and sustain a good music program and your music leaders by helping with practical and technical   matters as well as larger issues of theological integration and the quality of the music used in the service   of the church. 2CR [Meets only for the first half of the semester]		

STH TA 808: Marsh Chapel Choir
	Audition required. Schedule includes Sunday worship in Marsh Chapel and several  major concerts.		

STH TA 810: Hymns and Their Music
	Study of the history of congregational song from biblical practice to the present  day. Emphasis will be  given to the development of theological, textual, and  musical patterns, with special attention to  incorporating both historic and  emerging materials in worship. Strongly recommended for all MSM  students;  valuable for MDiv and doctoral students with special interest in worship.		

STH TA 815: World Religions in Boston
	In an increasingly pluralistic society it is essential to have some understanding of the beliefs and   worship   patterns of other religions and to be able to engage in dialogue with them. This course utilizes  the    Pluralism Project at Harvard to explore new forms of interfaith engagement. Seven weekly lectures     introduce the issues surrounding interfaith work and a basic understanding of the tenets and practices   of   five major religions. Site visits (to Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Buddhist and Jewish worship services) offer   first-  hand experiences and the opportunity for discussion and interaction with religious leaders and lay     people. 2CR [Meets only for the first half of the semester].		

STH TA 820: The Church and the Arts
	Aims to facilitate understanding of sacred art for its intrinsic worth and to assess how it may be used to enhance worship in the future. It will deal systematically with the theology of architectural space, church furnishing, vestments, stained glass, and decorative work. Students will be taught to look, interpret, and use the technical vocabulary of art and architecture and will develop skills for making value judgments about quality and content of art. Includes field trips to area churches and to the Museum of Fine Arts.		

STH TA 826: Seminar in Music of the 20th Century
		Course not being offered in 2014-2015 School Year.		

STH TA 830: Passions &amp; Requiems
	An examination of the legacy of music written for liturgical and non-liturgical  use, using longer text, tracing the origins, formulary, and development of the  texts (including discussion of the authors). Case studies will form the basis of  further inquiry. Cultural, social and historical context of the first  performance will be discussed, along with an examination of the theology behind  the text setting. There will be comparative analysis of other examples of the  same genre, discussion of post-Reformation changes in text and approach, and  national differences in style and technique.		

STH TC 529: Spiritual Autobiographies
	In the course, students will explore classic and contemporary spiritual autobiographies. These  autobiographies reveal the diverse paths of religious seekers, the crises and epiphanies that became focal  points of meaning and revelation. Students will learn about the practices of faith that sustained and  challenged religious people from Augustine to Teresa of Avila to Tolstoy. Through close, empathetic, and  critical examination of the texts, students will reflect on their own spiritual journeys and identities. They  also will engage first-hand in the crafting of spiritual autobiography, and students will have the  opportunity to work intensively in small groups throughout the writing and sharing process. Throughout  the course, students will explore potential uses of spiritual autobiography as pathways of discernment and  growth in congregational and retreat settings, small faith groups, spiritual formation and companionship.		

STH TC 715: Introduction to Preaching
	An introduction to the theology and practice of preaching within the context of  Christian ministry and  worship. Students develop skills necessary for  preparation, composition, delivery, and critique of sermons.  Required of all  M.Div. students in the Pastoral Ministry track.		

STH TC 723: United Methodist Polity
	Covers the polity, structure, procedures, and ritual of the United Methodist   Church along with the basic  structure of and ecclesial concepts contained within   its Book of Discipline. Designed to meet one of the  requirements for membership   in a UMC Annual Conference.		

STH TC 796: Theology of the Streets
	This clinic combines both an intellectual and an experiential appreciation of ministry on the streets of   Cambridge. Each week, students will spend ninety minutes in the classroom and two to three hours in   fieldwork as participants and observers in an outdoor church for chronically homeless men and women.    Field work placements will rotate among street outreach on Tuesday nights, Saturdays and Sunday,   pastoral visits to homeless shelters, pastoral visits to meals programs and, as opportunity permits, pastoral   visits to prisons, jails and hospitals.  For more information, please contact the instructor, Jedediah Mannis,   at jedmannis@charter.net.		

