STH TJ 876: Church and Theology in the Contemporary World
	Church and Theology in the Contemporary World is an advanced research seminar in practical theology. The course enables students to design and carry out a research project in practical theology under the guidance of the instructor and with constructive feedback from fellow students. Assignments are designed to help students to articulate a clear, significant, and manageable research question; to design a practical theological approach to the question; to develop relevant bibliographies and other research sources; and, ultimately, to complete a final project in practical theology. Through this work and additional readings, including careful reading of and theological reflection on daily newspapers, we will together identify and address a range of issues facing the church in diverse cultures and contexts. Students gain skills in identifying practical theological questions and interpreting contexts; critically incorporating social scientific research in a theological project; making normative judgments; and thinking through strategic practical theological responses to guide faithful Christian practice. The course is a required core course for all doctoral students majoring in Practical Theology. 		

STH TJ 910: Proseminar in Practical Theology
	This doctoral seminar for practical theology majors introduces the primary changes that are under way in  practical theology as a discipline, reviews the methodologies upon which these changes are based, and  examines the implications of these changes. 		

STH TJ 940: Ecclesiology
	This course asks the question, "What is the church?" in dialogue with Christian  theological figures and schools representing Roman Catholic, Protestant, and  Orthodox Christian traditions. While one of the aims of this course is that  students be conversant with those voices, it ultimately aims at the student's  ability to articulate the ecclesiology of his or her own community and to bring  that to bear on the contemporary situation and particular problems of Christian  practice in church and society. 		

STH TJ 976: Advanced Research in Practical Theology
	In this advanced research seminar, students will explore a range of practical theology research to map the field. They will analyze the purposes, practices, and significance of this research for the field of practical theology and for the larger human community. Students will have opportunities to develop expertise with selected research tools; develop a significant research question of high personal interest; and conduct a research project that contributes to the literature and some part of the human or ecological community.		

STH TM 801: Christian Mission in a Religiously Plural World
	This course is focused on constructing a theology of mission that is appropriate, adequate, and relevant   for the 21st century's religious plurality.  The aim of the course is to enable students to 1) recall a quick   critical survey of the history of Christian mission, 2) grapple with the varied biblical understandings of   mission, and 3) begin to frame and articulate a theology of mission that addresses the challenges posed by   the religiously plural world		

STH TM 808: Three Missionary Faiths (Buddhism, Christianity, Islam) and Their Importance for Global Development
	The terms "missionary" and "development" often prompt images of Western Christians working away from home.  Much has been written about European colonial era missionaries and Western-led interventions around the world. But Christianity is not the only missionary world religion nor do modern development efforts fall within the sole purview of Western powers.  This course will examine the missionary nature of Buddhism, Christianity, and Islam and consider the ways in which all three faiths think about engagement with the world in an era of climate change, resource wars, and global economic inequity.  Using an inter-disciplinary approach that examines religious adherents' worldviews the course will concentrate on how the thinking patterns of followers of these three faith traditions translate into actions.  We will also reflect on the ways in which the modern development enterprise itself exhibits missionary characteristics.  Particular attention will go towards contexts in which interactions among the religious traditions and secular development interventions are taking place.  Guest speakers, site visits, and multimedia presentations will complement reading assignments and classroom discussions.		

STH TM 815: Christian Mission
	Exploration of biblical, historical, theological, political, and cultural  perspectives on the world mission of the church. This course is a requirement for  United Methodist MDiv students pursuing ordination in the United Methodist  Church.   		

STH TM 853: NGOs &amp; FBOs
	Explores theoretical and practical issues related to cross-cultural non-governmental and faith-based  service work. 		

STH TM 856: Women in Mission and World Christianity
	History of Christian women in diakonia and mission outreach, including gender  issues in mission and non- western Christianity today.		

STH TM 857: Mission and Development
	An inter-disciplinary exploration of Christian mission and development studies in light of 21st century  challenges. Includes policy development.		

STH TM 858: Creating Resilience Amidst Resource Scarcity
	Since the mid-1980s, humans have been consuming more of earth's resources than  the planet can  replenish; the United States alone uses one quarter of the  world's energy. This situation, known as  "overshoot," has largely arisen from  hyper-development. If nothing is done, in several decades there will  be vast  species extinction, food and fuel shortages, and social unrest. Today's young  children could also  expect to grow old in a catastrophically degraded world.  Many analysts say a cultural and spiritual  awakening, including a major rethink  of humanity's mission and purpose, is needed to alter this future  scenario. So  the purpose of this course is to prepare students who can help bring about such  an  awakening. We will engage Christian theological viewpoints with those of  concerned economists,  philosophers, and organizational behaviorists. And we will  experiment with practical applications of key  concepts necessary to positive  change. 		

STH TM 859: The Future of Ecumenism
	This course focuses on "The Future of Ecumenism and the Transformation of World Christianity in the    21stCentury: Tracking the WCC General Assembly Theme; 'God of Life, lead us to Justice and Peace.'" As    such, it juxtaposes the interests of the ecumenical movement even as it verges with evangelical and    interfaith interests together with the Just Peace initiatives as defined at the International Ecumenical Peace    Convocation in Jamaica (2011). This course is also a part of the World Council of Churches' Global    Ecumenical Theological Institute (GETI) as facilitated internationally and at Busan, Republic of Korea,    location of the 10th General Assembly of the WCC. Participants in this course will have immediate or digital    connection with this assembly. 		

STH TM 909: Mission and Outreach: Foundations for Transformation
	Online Course: This course surveys the biblical, historical, theological, and contextual foundations of  transformational Christian mission, and introduces contemporary missional issues and practices.   Participants will analyze the mission potential of their ministry site and  community. The final project of the  course is the development of a leadership plan for mission and outreach.		

STH TM 910: History of Christian Mission
	A seminar in the history of Christian missions, from the early church to the present. Issues of  historiography, method, and the emergence of non-western church history. Required course for doctoral  students in mission studies.		

STH TM 930: History of Missiology
	Seminar on the classic Protestant mission theorists of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.  Required for doctoral students in mission studies.		

STH TM 931: Readings in Contemporary Missiology
	Readings and discussions of important works in missiology from the 1960's to the  present. This course  begins where TM 930 ends. Required for doctoral students in  mission studies		

STH TM 935: Global Development &amp; Faith
	The academic study of development often overlaps with the practical application of mission and outreach  activities (Churches may participate in efforts to reduce malaria mortality, for example.). Along the way,  though, keen theological analysis and critical cultural perspectives may get lost, resulting in  misunderstandings and missed opportunities. This course aims to equip reflective practitioners with  background and insights they will need to effect more holistic social transformation. 		

STH TM 959: The Future of Ecumenism and the Transformation of World
	This course focuses on "The Future of Ecumenism and the Transformation of World Christianity in the      21stCentury: Tracking the WCC General Assembly Theme; 'God of Life, lead us to Justice and Peace.'" As      such, it juxtaposes the interests of the ecumenical movement even as it verges with evangelical and      interfaith interests together with the Just Peace initiatives as defined at the International Ecumenical Peace      Convocation in Jamaica (2011). This course is also a part of the World Council of Churches' Global      Ecumenical Theological Institute (GETI) as facilitated internationally and at Busan, Republic of Korea,      location of the 10th General Assembly of the WCC. Participants in this course will have immediate or digital      connection with this assembly. 		

STH TN 721: New Testament Introduction
	Content of the New Testament writing in its historical setting and special  attention to its relevance today.  This course is a prerequisite for all New  Testament II courses. MDIV &amp; MTS CORE REQUIREMENT.		

STH TN 723: New Testament Greek I
	Introduction to the grammar and vocabulary of the Greek New Testament. For students with no training in  Greek. (Credit for STH TN 723 is only given after successful completion of STH TN 724.)		

