STH TN 724: New Testament Greek II
		Continues and presupposes STH TN 723.		

STH TN 803: Jesus in the Gospels
	A theological and exegetical study; attention to literary and religio-historical problems. (Requires TN 721  or equivalent)		

STH TN 804: The Christian Bible: a History
	This course considers the history of the biblical canon, the Bible as an object or artifact, and shifting views   of biblical authority over time. (Requires TN 721 or equivalent)		

STH TN 805: Pauline Studies
	Paul's life, letters, and thoughts are considered historically and in their bearing upon Christian theology.  (Requires TN 721 or equivalent)		

STH TN 806: The Gospel of John
	The purpose of this study of the Fourth Gospel is to acquaint the student with  this work from the later   New Testament period in a way that provides  understanding of and the capacity for criticism of the text   involved (in  addition to some non-canonical Johannine literature, e.g., the Gnostic  Apocryphon of John).   Appreciation for both the unity and the diversity within  the Johannine literature should increase during this   study.  (Requires TN 721 or equivalent)		

STH TN 808: From Jesus to Christ: The Origins of Christianity
	Places Jesus of Nazareth in his contemporary religious and social context of Second Temple Judaism; and   accounts for the origins and growth of Christian life, belief, and spirituality up to the second century, as   reflected in the writings of that period. (Requires TN 721 or equivalent)		

STH TN 810: The Social Setting of Early Christianity
	The focus of the course will be the economy, society, and culture of the Greco-Roman world in which the  first Christians lived. The purpose of the course is to introduce the student to the social world that  produced the New Testament and other early Christian literature, including martyrdoms and apologies. We  will read primary and secondary sources on Roman history (early imperial period), ancient Judaism (from  Alexander the Great to the revolt by the messianic figure Bar Kochba), Greco-Roman religions (with focus  on the "pagan spirituality" of the ancient mystery religions), and the reaction by Roman magistrates and  pagan intellectuals to the new Christian movement. Such context is essential for reconstructing the life,  religion, society, and culture of the ancient Christians. (Requires TN 721 or equivalent)		

STH TN 813: Letter to the Romans
	Analysis of Paul's most systemic letter with special attention to the themes of election, justification by faith, ethics, and new Israel. Romans' historical impact on Luther, Wesley, Barth, and Bultmann.		

STH TN 815: Jesus and Paul on Poverty and Economic Issues
	We live in a time of great wealth and great poverty. We, the rich and the poor, often coexist in close    proximity, as neighbors and strangers, folk passing each other, sometimes unseen, in grocery stores  and   gas stations, people who interact or, more often, live in segregated silences within church and  society. At   the global level, too, the pattern of passing and unseeing exchange recurs in engagements  (whether   economic, political, or cultural) among nations of great wealth and the world's poor. This class  engages   New Testament texts and early Christian communities' own struggles with poverty, status, and  class   differences as a springboard for deep discussions of the moral life around issues of poverty and  economic   justice. (Requires TN 721 or equivalent)		

STH TN 816: Greek Reading I
	This course builds on Greek language skills by engaging in close readings and translations of New  Testament and other Greek literature.		

STH TN 817: Greek Reading II
	This course builds on Greek language skills by engaging in close readings and translations of New  Testament and other Greek literature.		

STH TN 820: The Gospel of Mark
	English exegesis of the gospel according to Mark. (Requires TN 721 or equivalent)		

STH TN 826: The Corinthian Correspondence
	A theological and exegetical study; attention to literary and religio-historical problems.		

STH TN 827: Gender in Early Christianity
	We will compare and contrast modern American and early Christian constructions of gender, historically,   socioculturally, and theologically, using the early Christian formulations within their Greco-Roman and   Jewish contexts as a springboard for group discussion and analysis. In the first third of the course, we ask   how, in comparison to our own, first century C.E. Jews, Greeks, and Romans seem to have constructed and   enacted their gender identities. In the latter two thirds of the course, we analyze how these gender   categories impacted early Christianity and how, in turn, adherents shaped them in their own identity   formation and theological explorations. Primary sources include Greco-Roman, Second-Temple Jewish,   New Testament, and other early Christian texts. (Requires TN 721 or equivalent)		

STH TN 833: Archaeology and Religion in Ancient Ephesus
	Analysis of the social and civic context of ancient religions in Ephesus especially through examination of--  and reflection upon--the city's extant material culture which the class will observe during a 10 day visit to   ancient Ephesus and other archaeological sites in the region (March 7-17).  Ephesus will serve as our   primary classroom.  Visits to other sites will be used for comparative purposes as we interpret the material   remains in Ephesus during 4 visits to the site.		

STH TN 838: Friendship and Paul's Letter to the Philippians
	In his letter to the Philippians, Paul gave common Greek and Roman ideas about friendship a distinctively   Christian cast in order to address internal and external struggles believers there were experiencing. We will   begin read ancients from Aristotle to Dio Chrysostom who talked about friendship to create a set of   portraits of elite friendship. We will then read Philippians in light of this common portrait, addressing: the   interrelationship of believers as "friends"; the importance of imitation, unity, suffering righteousness, and   love, for Christian living; the question of the identity of the Philippians' opponents; and challenges of   understanding themselves as a distinctive "commonwealth" within a Roman imperial colony. We will engage   modern concerns arising from these emphases throughout the course, as we place them in conversation   with the social, ethical, and theological struggles faced by first-century non-Jewish converts who were   forming new identities as Christians and seeking to understand both their relationship to Judaism and their   place within the Roman Empire. (Requires TN 721 or equivalent)		

STH TN 841: Luke-Acts
	Luke-Acts as apologetic and missionary instrument in the Roman world. Redefinition of the figure of Jesus,  Paul, and the apostles in the late first century. (Requires TN 721 or equivalent)		

STH TO 704: Hebrew Bible I
	Introduction to the religion and literature of ancient Israel; development of Hebrew scripture within its  cultural, historical, and social contexts. Required of all students who have not completed a thorough  introduction to the Hebrew Bible. A one-hour study section is also required. This course is prerequisite for  all Hebrew Bible II courses. MDIV &amp; MTS CORE REQUIREMENT.		

STH TO 723: Biblical Hebrew I
	Hebrew grammar, including exercises in translation and composition, following Lambdin's Introduction to  Biblical Hebrew. Prepares students to read Hebrew prose. (Credit for STH TO 723 is given only after  successful completion of STH TO 724.)		

STH TO 724: Biblical Hebrew II
		Continues and presupposes STH TO 723.		

