STH TO 802: The Prophetic Tradition
	The history of biblical prophecy in the context of ancient Near Eastern prophetic phenomena. Emphasis on  reading primary texts and questions of social context, role, literary forms, rhetoric, and relation to tradition  and to the present. (Requires TO 704 or equivalent)		

STH TO 804: The Book of Ezekiel
	The book of Ezekiel is radical literature; and those who would study it seriously must be prepared for  strange visions, troubling twists on traditions, weird sign acts, priestly minutiae, and almost relentless  divine anger. We will read the entire book of Ezekiel, using "among other resources" Darr's commentary on  the book of Ezekiel in the New Interpreter's Bible Commentary. Class sessions will include lectures and  seminar-style class discussions. (Requires TO 704 or equivalent)		

STH TO 807: History of Israelite Religion
	The origins and development of the religion of Israel and Judah from its earliest  roots in Canaanite culture to its transformation in the Persian period.   Attention to extra-biblical, as well as biblical evidence; the religion of family  and countryside, as well as that of cities and elites; ritual behavior and  mythological representation, and theological assertations and questionings.		

STH TO 813: Proverbs
	A study of ancient Israel's proverbs as poetry, as strategies for dealing with a  variety of social interactions,  and as compact exemplars of ancient wisdom. We  will examine both the sayings of Israel's sages and the  popular proverbs  everyone "performed," assisted not only by critical biblical scholarship, but  also by the  fields of paremiology (the study of proverbs), folklore studies, and  anthropology. (Requires TO 704 or  equivalent)		

STH TO 814: The Cultural Background of the Hebrew Bible
	Investigation of the cultural background and presuppositions of the biblical writers by interpretation of biblical texts and archeological remains and by comparison with materials from other ancient Near Eastern cultures. Implications for understanding and use of the Bible.		

STH TO 815: Hebrew Reading and Exegesis I
	Reading of selected prose texts, with some general grammatical review. Emphasis on precise exegesis and translation into fluent current English. Half course.		

STH TO 816: Hebrew Wisdom
	Hebrew wisdom as found in the Book of Proverbs, selected psalms, Ecclesiastes, and Job. Attention to   similar themes in contemporary literature. (Requires TO 704 or equivalent)		

STH TO 819: Hebrew Reading and Exegesis II
	Readings of poetic passages from the Hebrew Bible, selected from various genres and periods. Introduction to the forms of Hebrew poetry, especially parallelism. Students should expect to continue to consolidate and extend knowledge of classical Hebrew grammar, to build vocabulary, to become sensitive to different kinds of Hebrew literature and its piety or theology, to learn to recognize different literary and cultural presuppositions, and to practice imaginative reading and translation. 		

STH TO 821: The Book of Psalms
	The Psalter, its development, organization, and content. The Psalms interpreted in their worship setting.   Attention given to literary and devotional values of these lyrical classics of Israel. (Requires TO 704 or  equivalent)		

STH TO 823: The Book of Jeremiah
	The course will involve a reading of the complete book of Jeremiah with attention to the two different text  types; the different kinds of literature in the book (narrative prose, sermonic prose, and the various kinds  of poetry); the rhetoric and its cultural, social, and religious context; the character, meaning, and purpose  of individual pericopes; and the structure and purpose of the whole book. (Requires TO 704 or equivalent)		

STH TO 827: Violence in the Hebrew Bible
	TBA		

STH TO 829: Genesis
	A study of the Book of Genesis in the context of other ancient Near Eastern creation myths and stories. The    course covers the Primeval Cycle, the Abraham Cycle, the Jacob Cycle and the Joseph Narrative with special   attention to their reception and relevance for contemporary religious  audiences. Prerequisite: STH TO 704:   Hebrew Bible I.		

STH TO 831: Gender and Dominance in the Hebrew Bible
	TBA		

STH TO 835: Current Issues in Biblical Interpretation
	Examination and evaluation of several current methods and approaches. Students are encouraged to  develop a generally valid and fruitful approach. Emphasis on working with specific biblical texts. (Requires  TO 704 or equivalent)		

STH TO 838: Biblical Interpretation from Hispanic and Latin American Perspectives
	This course provides an introduction to the contexts, assumptions, and methods  of Hispanic and Latin  American Biblical exegesis and its major contributions to  Biblical and Religious Studies. The course's  objectives are: 1. To develop an  awareness of the Hispanic and Latin American approaches to the Bible,  their  differences and points of contact.; 2. To understand the different assumptions  of the Hispanic and  Latin American interpretation of the Bible; 3. To develop  intercultural exegetical skills and cross-cultural  sensitivity; 4. To experience  and develop an understanding of the reality of US Hispanics and Latin  Americans  through learning about its history, economy, political, social, and religious  context. Selected  passages from the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament will be  analyzed in terms of the cultural and  historical situation of Latin Americans  and Hispanic peoples in the United States. (Requires TO 704 or  equivalent)		

STH TO 841: The Book of the Twelve
	Expositional overview of the Book of the Twelve (Hosea, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Nahum,  Habakkuk, Zephaniah, Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi). The goal of the course is to promote a deeper  awareness of the various trends of interpretation of the Book and of its relevance for the personal and  communal life.  (Requires TO 704 or equivalent)		

STH TO 844: Ancient Egyptian Magic and Religion
	A survey of the religion and magical practices of ancient Egyptians from the time of the pyramids through   the Greco-Roman period (ca. 2600 BCE -- 400 CE). The course offers an insight into the ancient Egyptian   gods, religious thought, and ideas through the analysis of texts, iconography, and objects used in religious   / magical practices. A special focus is on the role of popular magic and religion in everyday life and in the   temple. No prerequisites. Undergraduate students are welcome to register. The course also requires   approximately six additional hours of class at the Museum of Fine Arts where students read/study pieces   of the MFA Egyptian Collection.		

STH TO 846: Middle Egyptian 1
	An introduction to the classical stage of the Egyptian script and language spoken in Ancient Egypt during  the Middle Kingdom which became the standard hieroglyphic language until the Graeco-Roman Period.		

STH TO 847: Middle Egyptian 2
	An introduction to the classical stage of the Egyptian script and language spoken in Ancient Egypt during the Middle Kingdom which became the standard hieroglyphic language until the Graeco-Roman Period.		

STH TO 851: Akkadian 1
	Akkadian grammar, including exercises in translation and composition.  (Credit for STH TO 851 is given only after successful completion of STH TO 852.)		

