STH TC 836: Race, Gender, and Ethnicity in Church and Society
	This course examines the relation between race, gender, and ethnicity from the  perspective of different multicultural identities and theological  understandings, evaluating how religious structures have constructed these  relations and challenged these dynamics. Analyzing various church contexts and  social constructions, we will aim to re-evaluate diverse theoretical and  experimental discussions among different ethnic groups in a global context as  well as in the American context. This course introduces students to of the  multiple dynamics present between race, gender, and ethnicity in various church  contexts such as White/African American/Asian/Asian American/Hispanic/other  immigrant churches and multicultural congregations. It investigates how church  life and ministry interact with sociopolitical and cultural structures and how  these processes impact people's everyday lives. The course analyzes the issues  of race, gender/sex, body, age, and class in the North American context seeking  also to understand colonial and post-colonial structures within American society  and beyond. 		

STH TC 837: Vocation, Work and Faith
	Who am I called to become? What am I called to do? What are my gifts and where will they be recognized   and of service? These kinds of vocational questions are fundamental to our lives. The course seeks to  open  up reflection, study, and dialogue about vocation, work, and spirituality in religious traditions and  in our  own life experience. Work and vocation are often connected. Work too is a crucial religious  question in  contemporary society. Work exerts a powerful--and often unrecognized--influence on  human beings. It  can support life, develop talents, elicit creativity, and enable people to contribute to  the common good.  Work also can demean human beings, undermining their dignity, perpetuating  unjust structures,  overpowering values, and crowding out other important spheres of life. Labor issues  are important  concerns for faith communities and faith-based community organizations. This course explores vocation  and work as theological/spiritual issues, including implications for  ministry. We will explore themes such  as: work as spiritual practice or challenge; labor and justice  issues; discerning vocation; creativity;  Sabbath; "time poverty"; and work-life balance. The course  involves site visits, vocational mentoring,  seminar presentations, and individual research/ministry  projects. 		

STH TC 838: Church Renewal
	In every era, Christians must rethink what it means to be the church in light of  the Christian witness and given the unique challenges and opportunities of our  particular situation. This course explores (1) what it means to be the church as  an embodied witness to the reign of God in our present culture and (2) the  various strategies and resources upon which Christian leaders might draw in  guiding congregations through processes of formation, change, and  revitalization. 		

STH TC 839: Suffering and Healing
	This course will examine the understanding of human suffering in personal and communal space and     explore the possibilities of healing in church and ministry. Through a range of readings, films, case     studies, and a church or non-profit organization site visit, students will critically reflect on various     conditions of human suffering including sickness, joblessness, homelessness, racial prejudices,     immigration issues and others. The course will employ interdisciplinary study methods, from     pastoral/practical theology to cultural studies. Building from these experiences and reflections, students     will work to develop practical ministries that aim to restore and heal individuals and communities.		

STH TC 842: Urban Ministry Models for the 21st Century: Creative Ministry in Context
	This course will examine urban new church starts and congregational restarts that engage  in ministry in    their settings.  Participants will learn tools and methods for contextual analysis and explore models of    leadership for 21st century ministry. Most course sessions will occur at urban congregations throughout    New England.  One particular area of focus will be ways in which global migration has impacted ministry in    these settings.		

STH TC 844: Classics in Christian Spirituality
	This course serves as an introduction to the study of Christian spirituality through in-depth reading of   selected classics in Christian spirituality as well as secondary source scholarship in the discipline. We will   delve into texts by early monastics and visionary medieval mystics; look anew at Protestant hymns and   poetry; go deeper into Ignatian discernment; and engage the spiritualities of Latin American liberation   theologians and African American women. This interdisciplinary seminar opens up reflection on  spirituality  and theology; spirituality and history; spirituality, gender, race, and ethnicity; spirituality,  poetics, and  autobiography; spirituality and ministry; and spiritual practice. Students are encouraged to  integrate the  material with an eye toward their own spiritual lives and vocations. The course will integrate  music, art,  and poetry to offer a fuller engagement with spiritual classics.  		

STH TC 845: Parish Preaching
	The central, crucial role of preaching in a parish setting involves engagement   with other congregational ministries and with the needs and resources of the   larger community.  This course is intended as a second level, advanced preaching   course, with emphasis on the context of preaching.  The course offers multiple   opportunities to develop and preach sermons.  Attention is given both to regular   Sunday preaching and also to particular sermons for various occasions:  special   events, Stewardship Sunday, funerals and weddings, Advent and Lent, national   observances (Fourth of July, Mothers' Day, New Year's, Thanksgiving, other),   denominational requirements, and civic addresses.  The interactive engagement of   the preaching ministry with parish ministry as a whole is the focus of the   course. 		

STH TC 847: Faith and Film
	This course uses the medium of film as an avenue for reflection upon the meaning  and truth of the central doctrines of the Christian church as expressed in the  historic Apostle's Creed. The course uses a broad cross-section of film genres  to open up new and creative windows for understanding and communicating the  Christian faith in contemporary culture and also assists the student in thinking  critically about film from a Christian theological perspective.		

STH TC 849: Narrative Sermons
	In this course, students will learn approaches to preaching narratively. By the   end of the course, students will also begin to integrate their homiletical   practice with their own emerging narrative theology of preaching.		

STH TC 851: Preaching and Worship in the African-American Traditions
	Study of the preaching, prayer, and music in African-American churches. 		

STH TC 852: Spirituality and Leadership
	Changing times in church and society challenge our understandings about and  practices of leadership. This course will examine the nexus of leadership and  spirituality.  We will examine theories about leadership, both secular and  church-based, focus particularly on the systemic nature of leadership. We will  also consider the importance of the 'being' of the leader, not just the 'doing'.  The quality of a leader's life and work can be significantly enhanced by being  supported with spiritual practices. Those spiritual practices may involve the  leader as well as individuals and groups with whom the leader engages. Students  will be given opportunity to reflect on biblical models of leadership, to  explore a leadership in a contemporary setting, as well as to learn, experience,  and practice spiritual disciplines for leaders and those with whom they lead.		

STH TC 854: Leadership in Times of Change
	Although it sounds like an oxymoron, change is a constant, whether in the  context of the individual, the family, the local church, the university, the  nation, or the world. How a leader defines, understands and deals with change,  both personally and in the leadership setting, is important both for the leader  and those in the organization or group. Leadership for change may emerge from  anywhere in the group/organization. Exploring theories and practices from both  secular and church-based resources, students will seek to deal with these  questions such as: What is the nature of change? How does our understanding of  God shape our understanding of change? How does our understanding of change  shape our understanding of God? Are there healthy ways to lead in times of  transition and change? Are there leadership patterns and practices that are  counterproductive in times of transition and change? 		

STH TC 857: Spiritual Resources and Disciplines
	An introduction to Christian spiritual practices and traditions. The course explores topics such as prayer, lectio divina, discernment, spiritual guidance, justice, and hospitality, with attention to the importance of spiritual practice as the ground of ministry in diverse contexts. Students will develop their own Rule of Life as part of the work of the course.		

STH TC 861: Theologies of Church Music
	The Church, throughout its history, has sought to clarify its relationship to  culture. In particular, is the Church to accommodate its worship to culture or  avoid adoption of cultural forms? The relationship of culture and worship will  be explored in this course from the angle of the historical Church's use of  music. How have the Church's theologians defined the role of music in the  Church? What are the most appropriate musical forms for use in the Church? These  issues will be examined with an eye to discussing and evaluating contemporary  Christian musical expressions. 		

STH TC 862: The Liturgical Year
	The historical development of a Christian calendar of both weekly and annual cycles. Descriptions of related liturgical and catechetical customs and contemporary calendar revision.		

STH TC 863: Reading and Writing Rites of Passage
	An examination of historical, theological, and pastoral aspects of the occasional offices that address life's passages and crises:  birth, adolescence, Christian marriage, sickness and death, and Christian burial.  An ecumenical and international approach will be taken in studying both historic and contemporary rites.		

STH TC 867: Theology and Popular Culture
	This course places the Christian gospel into dialogue with a variety of  expressions of North American popular culture (film, television, art, music,  entertainment, sports, etc.) in an effort to understand the complex relationship  between the two. The course takes up at with this dialogue against the wider  background of the study of religion and popular culture and by exploring the  nature of self and transcendence, morality and the spiritual quest as those are  constructed and configured within popular culture.  The course asks to what  extent contemporary expressions of Christian worship, preaching, Ministry,  evangelism, and spirituality might better engage popular culture and to what  extent these expressions already reflected the values, patterns, and practices  of popular culture.		

STH TC 868: Worship in the Anglican and Wesleyan Traditions
	A study of the historical, theological, liturgical, and sociocultural influences  which have shaped the worship patterns of the major American denominations  claiming a Wesleyan heritage.		

STH TC 869: Prophetic Preaching, Pastoral Ministry, and Social Change
	This course is designed to help students wrestle with several central issues  around prophetic preaching in contemporary Christian churches: the relationships  of prophetic preaching to the gospel, to the Bible, to the social-political  context, and to pastoral ministry generally.  Since the course is designed to be  a seminar, students will be expected to wrestle with these issues not only in  class but also through a sermon and a public message.  By the end of the course,  students should be able to develop their own vision for prophetic preaching in a  way that integrates the above concerns by moving from a specific Biblical text  to a sermon as well as a public message in light of a situation.  Pre-requisite  TC715 Intro to Preaching or its equivalent.		

STH TC 871: Spiritual Foundations for Peace Building
	Through reading and reflection on biographies and autobiographies of national  and international peace-builders, students will look at how the cultural  contexts and spiritual practices of the peace-builder influenced their peace- building work.  The focus will be on peace-builders beginning in the 20th  century with Gandhi, King, Chavez, Day, Deming, and others. Students will also  explore their own contexts and how those contexts impact their perspectives on  both spiritual formation and confliction transformation.		

