STH TO 852: Akkadian 2
	Akkadian grammar, including exercises in translation and composition.  (Credit for STH TO 851 is given only after successful completion of STH TO 852.)		

STH TR 802: The Sociology of Religion
	This course will introduce students to the basic ideas and methods with which sociologists have analyzed  the relationship between religion and society.  It will explore what it means to think about religious  language, symbols, communities, and practices a social phenomenon.  We will also explore the social  processes at work in congregations and denominations, new religious movements and conversion,  religious communal identity and ethnic conflict.		

STH TR 820: Black Church Studies
	TBA		

STH TR 830: Values and Practices in Developing Healthy Communities
	Important theoretical and practical issues related to cross-cultural, governmental and nongovernmental   and faith-based service work related to the practice of *Decent Care and its application in developing   healthy communities will be surveyed. Structured according a developmental approach to health and health   systems, students will be encouraged to think critically about and experience the application of values and   assumptions undergirding health systems and structures of such service work as currently envisioned and   practiced. Case studies, guest speakers, and multimedia offerings will enrich the context of informed   disciplinary and cross disciplinary approaches.   *Decent Care is a concept developed in the World Health  Organization by the instructor. Decent Care bases  the planning, delivery and evaluation of care on values  that place individuals, in their social and cultural  contexts, at the center of the caring process. The aims of  decent care are to develop health systems around  the primacy of persons in their own health care, and to  build a bridge between the principles of human  rights and the practice of medicine. By listening to and  honoring the voices of the people care processes  and models can be developed that respond to the needs  of a community enabling human flourishing.		

STH TR 840: American Evangelicalism: Conservative Protestants in the United States
	Conservative Protestantism is a vital religious movement in North American life  whose adherents make up  roughly 25-35% of the American population. This course  will introduce students to various streams of  conservative Protestant movements- -Pentecostalism, Fundamentalism, and Neo-Evangelicalism--and  their  characteristic religious patterns. Taking an interdisciplinary approach with  sociology as the lead  discipline, students will explore the major theories that  attempt to explain the vitality of these groups,  examine their impact on various  dimensions of social and political life, and assess the implications of the   exportation of these distinctively American brands of religion abroad. The  assumption that the study of  Evangelicalism and its complexities in the U.S.  context warrants deep and thoughtful study guides this  course.		

STH TR 850: Sociology of Congregational Life
	The overarching goal of this class is to provide students with a working knowledge of group and  organizational dynamics, using congregational life as a lens. Examining congregations, religious leaders,  and laity through theories of group and organizational dynamics. This is a course about how congregations  and congregational life is shaped - how the laity, pastoral staff, surrounding community, and  organizational processes all shape congregations in specific ways. We will examine the ways in which  societal factors impact congregations and congregational life. By the end of the semester, I expect students  will have a working knowledge of group and organizational dynamics, as well as research methods to  examine congregational conflicts from an individual, group, and societal level.		

STH TR 900: Qualitative Methods in the Study of Religion
	TBA		

STH TR 909: Sociology of Black Religions
	This course will survey major classic and contemporary themes in social  scientific studies of black religion in the 20th century in the United States.  Students will interrogate, among other things, popular conceptions of black  religion, the black church, and black religious experience.		

STH TR 940: Advanced Seminar in Religion and Social Change
	This seminar examines the relationship between religious ideas and practices and the world of micro and macro social change. It gives attention to both the conservative and radical potential within religion, as well as to the structures that either limit or facilitate the exercise of religious power. It covers both major theoretical perspectives and relevant research literature, with focused attention on a variety of historical and contemporary cases. 		

STH TR 964: Seminar in Social Theory and Religious Identity
	This seminar will explore a variety of theoretical perspectives on the social  formation of modern persons,  asking how those insights inform an understanding of  individual and collective religious identity.  Students  will also participate in  field research focused on the intersection of religious and social identities.		

STH TS 500: Encountering ET: Spirit, Science, and Space
	The discoveries of Copernicus/Galileo and Darwin (19th century) significantly  altered scientific and religious worldviews. People experienced a sense of  displacement from their previously perceived status in the universe. In the 21st  century, as space explorations expand, Contact with extraterrestrial life-- including intelligent life--becomes ever more possible (some people already  claim to have had visual or physical contact with UFOs and their alien  occupants). Using perspectives from science, science fiction, religion, and  United Nations space treaties, and narratives about peoples' claims of  encounters with extraterrestrial beings, this course will discuss current and  projected understandings of the human place in the cosmos; reflect on how  discovery of extraterrestrial life might impact the human sense of place in the  universe; and consider how the impacts of ET encounters (actual or theoretical)  might be positively incorporated into human consciousness and contexts.		

STH TS 800: International Conflict and the Ministry of Reconciliation
	This course proposes a theology of reconciliation for religious peace-building in the realms of ethnic division and nationalism, race, economic injustice and environmental degradation. Churches and communities of faith are not simply local and parochial bodies but are parts of wider communities of faith and practice. The course explores such corporate practice toward a public theology for the public square for Christians to live faithfully in a world of difference. 		

STH TS 804: The Religious Thinking of Howard Thurman
	This seminar examines the religious and moral dimensions in the thought of Howard Thurman (1899-1981) a leading figure in twentieth century American religious and cultural life.  The dream of community, or "the search for common ground," was the defining motif of Thurman's life and thought.  His vision of the kinship of all peoples, born out of the particularity of his own personal struggles, propelled him into the Protestant mainstream as a distinctive interpreter of the church's role in a democratic society.  He influenced a younger generation of ethical leaders in the modern Civil Rights Movement, including Martin Luther King, Jr., Pauli Murray, Marian Wright Edelman, Whitney Young, Jesse Jackson, and Vernon Jordan.		

STH TS 805: The Spirit and the Art of Conflict Transformation: Creating a Culture of  JustPeace
	This course is a response to the experience of destructive conflict in the  church and in the world, as well  as the experience of religion as a source of  conflict. More importantly, it is a response to the call to every  Christian to  be ministers of reconciliation and peacebuilders. The course will introduce  students to the  theology, theory and practice of faith-based conflict  transformation, preparing students to become  religious leaders equipped with  fundamental tools and skills for engaging conflict and transforming  conflict in  a way that advances God's goal of shalom, a culture of justpeace.		

STH TS 806: Introduction to Mediation Theory and Practice
	This course will present theory on mediation through interaction with the instructors, course readings and       practical experience.  The course utilizes a lecture/discussion format interwoven with role play experience       to help students form a strong foundation in the practice of mediation.   Students will learn theory as well       as practical skills and in the process, they will learn how to engage themselves in an appropriate way in the       mediation process.		

STH TS 807: Narrative Power and Interfaith Peacebuilding
	This course focuses on gathering, analyzing and drawing insight from the narratives of peacemakers from  Jewish, Muslim, and Christian traditions. Students will explore: narrative theology; historic peacebuilding  narratives; the art and methods of oral history; and the collection and analysis of contemporary oral  histories of interfaith peacebuilders. Drawing wisdom from these several modes of learning, each student  will construct a theological and practical contribution to inform future peacebuilding efforts.		

STH TS 818: Christian Thinking about Moral Decisions
	The purpose this course is to analyze critically the following prominent types of Christian thought    concerning moral decisions:  Christian realism; Christian responsibility/ relationalism/contextualism;     Christian moral virtue; Christian pacifism; Christian feminism; Catholic moral tradition; African American    Christian tradition; Christian womanism;  and the ubiquitous challenge of utilitarianism.		

STH TS 822: The Ethical Leadership of Martin Luther King, Jr.
	This seminar examines the life, thought, and work of Martin Luther King, Jr. as a resource for the  conceptualization and development of ethical leadership. The seminar will examine his perspective on the  public role of religion against the background of contemporary leadership theories and practices, classical  Christian views, late nineteenth-century dissenting traditions, the early twentieth-century American Social  Gospel Movement, the modern Civil Rights Movement, Black Theology and Black Nationalism, Womanist  Studies and Critical Race Theory.		

STH TS 828: The Theology and Ethics of African Peoples
	Assuming the truth of Aristotle's claim that ethics is the study of moral character the quality of which  depends on the communal context in which it is formed, this course will explore writings pertaining to the  ethical thought of African peoples living under various conditions of oppression.  Those conditions will  include slavery, racial segregation and disfranchisement in the United States; colonialism in Africa and the  Caribbean; racial apartheid in South Africa. Special attention will be given to the ethical development of  women who were oppressed both within and without those cultural contexts. In short, students will  discover how men and women formed moral communities and became moral beings by creating various  forms of resistance to oppression. 		

STH TS 829: Christian Ecological Ethics and Political Issues
	This course will introduce students to the character and dimensions of the  ecological crisis and will; to help them reflect theologically and ethically on  ecological problems, to develop or enhance their particular faith tradition's  theoretical and practical engagement with ecological issues, gain knowledge of  the intersection of ecology and economics, and political and public policy  implications of this relationship, and to formulate public policy possibilities  and practical projects to address and seek to solve ecological problems.		

