STH TH 823: Modern Christian Biography
	This course focuses on the period ca. 1600-1899 and examines Christianity of the Modern Period through the lives of representative personalities from Europe and North America. Their lives provide the focus for an examination of the broader artistic, social, economic, and political trends of the time. 		

STH TH 825: The Medieval Church
	Survey of social, personal, institutional, and theological aspects of reform and renewal in the late medieval       and early modern periods, including Nominalism, Conciliarism, the papacy, Luther, the German and Swiss       Reformations, Anabaptism and radical reformers, Calvin, the French Reformation, the English Reformation,       Catholic Reform, and the Council of Trent. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TH 826: The Reformations
	Survey of social, personal, institutional, and theological aspects of reform and renewal in the late medieval   and early modern periods, including Nominalism, Conciliarism, the papacy, Luther, the German and Swiss   Reformations, Anabaptism and radical reformers, Calvin, the French Reformation, the English Reformation,   Catholic Reform, Ignatius and Theresa, and the Council of Trent. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TH 827: American Church History
	The development of American Christianity as a social, intellectual, institutional, and cultural movement.   The course includes visits to churches in Boston. COUNTS AS A MDIV CHURCH HISTORY II CORE   REQUIREMENT. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TH 832: Modern Church History
	This Church History II period survey (ca. 1600-1865) examines Christianity in light of social, economic, and political trends in the geographic regions of Europe, North America, and Latin America. COUNTS AS A MDIV CHURCH HISTORY II CORE REQUIREMENT.		

STH TH 847: Global Christianity
	Overview of trends and issues in world Christianity today, with lectures by specialists who contributed to  the Atlas of Global Christianity, and speakers from the Boston 2010 conference in November. Sponsored by  the BTI. COUNTS AS A MDIV CHURCH HISTORY II CORE REQUIREMENT.		

STH TH 848: World Christianity
	Historical development of world Christianity. Emphasis on social, cultural,   spiritual, and political issues in  African, Asian and Latin American Christianity   in the nineteenth through twenty-first centuries. (Requires  TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TH 854: Christianity in Colonial Latin America: Bartolomé de las Casas
	A study of the life and theology of the Spanish Dominican missionary Fray Bartolome de las Casas    (1474/84-1566), the "Apostle of the Indies." The universal stature of Las Casas is only becoming clearer as    we celebrate the five-hundredth anniversary of his "first conversion" of 1514. In that year, Las Casas    rejected the system of the encomiendas and began a lifelong journey in defense of the rights of the    indigenous people of the Americas. Participants will be introduced to the historical context of his life and    writings. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TH 855: Women and American Religion
	This course investigates the contribution of women in American religious history. Tracing women's  participation in American religion from the colonial settlement to the present, the course analyzes ways  that women's leadership has shaped the religious and cultural development of the United States. The class  examines the leadership models developed by women of diverse racial, ethnic, and class backgrounds,  investigating how the history of women in American religion relates to contemporary models of  leadership  in 21st-century North American church and society.  		

STH TH 869: Religious History of Boston
	The Greater Boston area contains one of the richest historical legacies in the United States. This course  examines distinctive aspects of that historical legacy, by focusing upon the religious history of Boston. The  course will include selected visits to specific Boston area historical sites.		

STH TH 870: Calvin and the Reformed Tradition
	On this eve of the 500th anniversary of John Calvin's birth, we will accomplish  two things in this course.  (1) We will read from Calvin in translation from his  Institutes, treatises, polemical writings, and letters, and (2)  we will   analyze contemporary historical and theological writings on him and his era.   Students will be able to read and write on any subject within the Reformed  tradition that interests them from the 16th century to contemporary topics in  the present such as Presbyterianism, the United Church of Christ, Unitarianism,   Puritanism (in England and New England),the Great Awakening, and the impact of  the Reformed tradition on the worldwide Anglican churches and their  denominational offshoots, such as Methodism.		

STH TH 876: Martin Luther King, Jr.: Leadership in Context
	This interdisciplinary course will review the life and ministry of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., as well as other leaders of the civil right movement in the United States.  The course will investigate how historical contexts of Rev. Dr. Martin King, are related to pastroal traditions and prophetic ministry of community and church through correlated study.  The emphasis on the role of a cohort of religious and community leaders who worked with King will be explored.  Our examination of prophetic ministry during the Civil Rights era, will be oriented to issues of race, gender, class and social justice.  		

STH TH 902: Christianity Beyond Early Modern Europe
	The course is dedicated to an in depth study of the reach of Christianity in the early modern period (c.  1450-c.1650). Our narrative follows the path of early modern Catholicism from fifteenth-century Europe,  through the ascent of the Portuguese and Spanish seaborne empires, and examines the role of the  missionary religious orders in the processes of Christianization and inculturation.		

STH TH 910: History of Christian Mission
	A seminar in the history of Christian missions, from the early church to the present. Issues of historiography, method, and the emergence of non-western church history. Required course for doctoral students in mission studies.		

STH TH 920: History of American Theological Liberalism
	American Theological Liberalism is a doctoral-level seminar that provides an overview into the historical     and theological development of liberal theology in the United States. Through reading a variety of primary     and secondary sources, the course is designed to provide students an historical and theological overview     into the development of liberalism and assess the ongoing significance of theological liberalism in church     and society today. 		

STH TH 924: Women in the Reformation
	Examination of the participation of women in the reformations of the sixteenth century and the  effect of  theological and ecclesiastical changes on women and gender roles in early modern society. Topics include  marriage, childbirth, household management, education, authorship, exercise of power, and  cloistered life  amid the different confessional movements of the early modern period.		

STH TH 925: The Bible in the Reformation
	Examination of the role of the Bible in the reformations of the sixteenth century, including the development  and divergence of Reformation hermeneutics in late medieval and Renaissance context.  Special  attention will be given to the vernacular translation and popular presentation of the Bible in the sixteenth  century press and pulpit. 		

STH TH 927: Early Modern Piety
	TBA		

STH TH 930: History of Missiology
	Seminar on the classic Protestant mission theorists of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.		

STH TH 971: Seminar: Luther and the Radical Reformers
	Historical-social contexts, theologies, and effects of the history of the church from the Reformation to the present. 		

