STH TY 854: Pastoral Theology and Psychology
	Practical theologians, pastoral theologians, and pastoral psychologists focus on different subject matters, use different methods, and address different audiences. Nonetheless, they share a common purpose: to diagnose, accurately and in-depth, concrete problems of the human condition (e.g., suffering, evil) and, correspondingly, to construct effective ways of addressing those problems (i.e., forms of intervention, strategies of care). This is a reading course that examines contributions of theologians, practical theologians, pastoral theologians, and pastoral psychologists, and provides a context in which students may investigate research problems that are especially relevant to their respective communities and traditions, as well as their particular vocational objectives (e.g., parish ministry, chaplaincy, pastoral care, seminary teaching). 		

STH TY 855: Pastoral Care, Community Justice and Feminist Ethics
	Two questions that undergird this course is 1)"what is the relationship between pastoral care and justice  in and for the broader community?" and 2) "what do diverse feminist ethical and theological perspectives  contribute this prior question?"  These questions will guide us throughout the semester as we 1) read  diverse perspectives on pastoral care and community justice; 2) visit ministry sites that seek to respond  to various forms of structural, i.e. economic, healthcare; gendered, ethnicity/racial, sexuality, prison,  etc. forms of injustices that impact specific communities; 3) articulate pastoral theologies of care that  explicit integrate ethical commitments to justice and responsible pastoral action; 4) explore the  difference that difference makes in the texts (human narratives as well as those written); 5) interrogate  the exercise of power in unjust social, religious and structural practices and in justice oriented practices  of care.		

STH TY 857: African American Pastoral Theology
	In this course we will give our attention to the content of African American Pastoral and Practical  Theologies as well as the pastoral practices that emerge from their methods, aims, sources and critiques.   In other words, we want to understand what this contextually based theology means for pastoral leadership  in black contexts.  Specifically, this course privileges African American experience, religion, spirituality and  modes of care.  Finally this course will reconsider what we mean by "African American Pastoral Theology  and Practical Theology" as well as the category "black religion" by widening the scope of where we look for  African American pastoral contexts. That is, we will include the experiences and voices of those outside the  historical black church congregation.  In doing so, we will consider the question "does African American  Pastoral theology have currency beyond the black Christian context?"		

STH TY 864: Pastoral Psychology: The Self
	Formulating a model of self that takes into account matters of religion, faith,  and spirituality;    acknowledges the influence of culture, race, ethnicity, class,  and gender; and coordinates the    contributions of various traditions of inquiry. 		

STH TY 870: Pastoral Psychology of Groups
	This course has as its first focus the examination of the kinds of psychodynamics that are a part of group  life, and the implications of these dynamics for participation in, working with, and serving in  pastoral/religious leadership roles with groups in a variety of settings.  This course will introduce students  to the conscious and unconscious dynamics of group life, and therefore, will be concerned with the  transference, countertransference, projection, group identity, and formation, etc.  Additionally, the course  will examine the relationship of race/ethnicity, culture, gender, class and sexuality as embedded and  integral facets of the psychodynamics that shape group processes. Toward these ends, we will engage  psychodynamic theories and concepts concerning the functioning of groups from pastoral psychoanalytic  group perspectives, and consider what they might offer in the service of pastoral practice. Students will  learn experientially about group processes by participating in a small group comprised of members of the  class.  		

STH TY 901: Professional Seminar in Counseling Psychology and Religion
	This two-credit graduate level seminar will cover significant issues in the field of Counseling Psychology    and Religion.  Emphasis will be on discussion of the issues raised by the presenters and the readings    assigned.  The course is designed to create a greater sense of community and connection among    Counseling Psychology faculty and students throughout the university and to increase socialization into the    professional aspects of being a Counseling Psychologist.		

STH TY 903: The Psychology of Religion
	Examining methodological questions and issues in the psychological interpretation  of religious matters by  considering what is meant by 'religion' and what is  involved in interpreting 'religion' psychologically. 		

STH TY 906: Human Development
	Human Development Course Description: The goal of this course is to achieve an  understanding of the  human developmental process and how that process integrates  the growth of faith and the life of the  community.  We will use a series of  theoretical readings, broader lectures by the professor, and selected   autobiographies to apply theory.  As our experiences provide excellent  laboratory data, there will be  various opportunities to examine our own life  processes as a way of seeing theory in action.  Course  Objectives: By the end of  the class, students should: - know the primary developmental theories, including   psychodynamic, cognitive, behavioral, social learning, faith development and be  able to identity of variety  of lesser used theories - be able to critique  developmental theories using the insights of feminist theory,  studies in racism  and sexual identity, and the reality of globalization - be able to apply theory  to case  material - discuss the relationship of human development and community  context  		

STH TY 911: Object Relations Theory for Pastoral Relationships
	Achieving familiarity with and fluency in a series of psychoanalytic theories of  personality/character, development, relationships, motivation, health, and  pathology, as a context in which to practice psychoanalytic interpretations of  religious matters. 		

STH TY 926: Psychodynamics of Marriage and Family
	This course includes a comprehensive overview of the field of family systems and family therapy. It will  serve as an introduction to the theory and techniques of couples and family therapy. An attempt will be  made to integrate theory and practice through assignments, class activities, and personal and professional  self-reflection. Students will have the opportunity to reflect upon how they might actually use course  content professionaly in their respective disciplines.		

STH TY 946: Ethics and Research in Psychology of Religion and Pastoral Psychology
	Review of ethical issues in the field as well as present and potential research in psychology of religion and pastoral psychology.		

STH TY 948: Pastoral Psychotherapy
	Goals, methods, and process of psychotherapy as a form of ministry. Theological, psychological, and ethical issues in the theory and practice of pastoral counseling and pastoral psychotherapy. Weekly case conference included. 		

STH TY 956: Near History of Psychology and Counseling Psychology
	A history of psychology as a science will be studied and discussed in terms of methods used in study of religion, theology and social sciences (including pastoral theology and psychology of religion).		

STH TY 964: Pastoral Psychology: The Self
	Formulating a model of self that takes into account matters of religion, faith,  and spirituality;    acknowledges the influence of culture, race, ethnicity, class,  and gender; and coordinates the    contributions of various traditions of inquiry. 		

STH TZ 802: Social Science Approaches to Religion
	Introduces major theoretical questions in the social scientific study of religion. Examines approaches of  Marx, Durkheim, and Freud among others.		

STH TZ 803: Humanities Approaches to Religion
	Introduces major theoretical questions in the humanistic study of religion.  Examines the nature of religion    as well as definitions and critiques of religion from comparative, historical, sociological, literary    standpoints as well as postmodern and gender studies approaches.		

STH TZ 911: Doctoral Research Internship
	All ThD and PhD students at STH are asked to fulfill a 180-hour research  internship, and this can be fulfilled in any year of the doctoral program but  normally prior to any teaching internships. The research internship affords the  student a close mentoring relationship with a faculty member. The student is  expected to provide research assistance to the faculty member while becoming  apprenticed into the life and work of a teacher/researcher.		

STH TZ 912: Doctoral Junior Teaching Internship
	All ThD and PhD students at STH are asked to fulfill a 180-hour Junior Teaching  Internship, which involves assisting a faculty member in the design and teaching  of a course, including the possibility of leading discussion sections, grading,  or even giving one or two lectures. All teaching internships will normally be  offered only in the second and subsequent years of a student's doctoral program.		

STH TZ 913: Doctoral Senior Teaching Internship
	All ThD and PhD students at STH are asked to fulfill a 225-hour Senior Teaching  Internship that involves greater responsibility for course design and teaching  and comes closer to a co-teaching model. May only be taken after TZ912.		

