STH TS 961: History of Western Ethics and Social Philosophy
	This seminar focuses on the ways Greek philosophy (Plato, Aristotle, Stoics) influenced Christian theology and ethics (Augustine and Aquinas), and how that Christian theological and ethical tradition influenced Luther, Calvin and other Reformers.  There will also be a look at the key figures in philosophy (Hume, Kant, Grotius, and others) who shaped modern Western ethics. Emphasis will also be placed on the development of Western social and political philosophy which led to the modern democratic state (Locke, Bentham, J.S. Mill, A. Smith), utilitarianism and cost-benefit analysis, as well as the works of revolutionary thinkers (Nietzsche and Marx) and also the seminal feminist thinkers (C. DePizan, M. Wollstonecraft, H. Taylor).  In addition, there will be efforts to explore the social and philosophical roots of the movements that led to the abolition of slavery as well as to the promotion of gender equality.  Consideration will be given to the social/political/economic context that influenced the thinking of the writers, as well as a look at some of the readings from a feminist and multicultural standpoint. Particular emphasis will be placed on the relevance of these thinkers in our society.  We should be aware of their shortcomings (class, cultural, racial and gender biases), but also be appreciative of their contributions to modern thinking. 		

STH TS 962: Global Ethics in Cultural Contexts
	An in-depth study of distinctive approaches to economic, ethnic, gender and  political justice in diverse regions: North America, Latin America, Africa, Asia  and Israel/Palestine. Liberation theology perspectives - African American,  Feminist, Womanist, Mujerista, Latin American, Native American, Asian, African,  Jewish and Palestinian - will provide bases for developing transcultural social  ethics. 		

STH TS 967: Christianity and Ecology in Community Contexts
	A study of Christian and Native American spiritual insights related to ecological perspectives, principles,  and practices. Student classroom sessions, research, and analysis will be complemented by field work:  engagement with members of faith traditions and environmental organizations in the Boston area. Writings  of theologians and ecologists, statements from individual denominations and ecumenical associations,  teachings of native elders, and the relationship of the proposed Earth Charter to religious teachings and  current ecological issues will be discussed. Economics, ethics, and ecology will be integrated with the  evolving School of Theology Green Vision statement, its implementation on campus, and its engagement in  projects with community organizations and faith communities off-campus.		

STH TS 999: The Continuing Relevance of Aristotle's Ethics and Politics
	This seminar will undertake a close reading and a critical inquiry into Aristotle's Nicomacheon Ethics and   Politics  in order to discern how his thought can be a helpful resource for the study and practice of ethics   and politics in our day.		

STH TT 731: Theology &amp; World Religions
	As students, scholars, spiritual seekers and religious leaders we live in a  modern world manifesting many  forms of diversity. One key form of this diversity  is religious pluralism. We become more and more aware  that that, for instance,  all the historical religions of the world now comprise the spiritual mosaic of   spiritual life in North America. This course provides an overview of the  historical development of the  world's religions in order to better understand  the current spiritual pluralism of North America. While the  history of world  religions does not explain everything that is happening in the lives of modern  religious  people, informed understanding of these religions is still essential  for anyone who seeks to dialogue in a  meaningful fashion with a person of  another faith tradition. The course will focus on both the emic (inner   dimensions) and etic (outer dimensions) of the historical and spiritual  development of the world's  religions. We will stress the differences as well as  the similar features of the religions. We will also ask  genuine theological  questions because we live, work, communicate and minister in diverse religious   communities of faith.		

STH TT 732: History of Christian Theology in Philosophical Perspective
	Christianity called itself a "philosophy" in its early centuries and its  theology has always been highly  responsive to philosophical thought, even when  it has attempted to be anti-philosophical. This course  tracks the history of  Western European Christian theology through the influences of Plato and Plotinus  on  Augustine and Bonaventura, Aristotle on Thomas Aquinas, the rise of early  modern subjectivism on Luther  and Calvin, the influences of Kant and Hegel on  Schleiermacher, Barth, and Tillich, the rise of process  theology, and the  influence of Marx on liberation and postmodern theologies.  The emphasis will be  more  on the shaping of theological contours than on the philosophies themselves.		

STH TT 733: Constructive Theology
	This course introduces students to the major themes of Christian theology with  the aim of providing them  with a framework for effective and faithful  theological reflection. Beginning with revelation and ending  with eschatology,  we follow a familiar progression in the study of systematic theology, examining  modern  and postmodern theological perspectives on God, creation, human nature,  sin, Christology, ecclesiology  and other doctrinal loci. The methodological  approach is constructive, in that emphasis is placed on  helping students  integrate central issues of faith in response to contemporary issues.		

STH TT 803: Resurrection: Eschatology for the 21st Century
	TBA		

STH TT 805: The Theology and Ethics of Reinhold and H. Richard Niebuhr
	The purpose of this course is three-fold:  (a) to understand the methodologies of each of the Niebuhr   brothers; (b) to discern their similarities and differences; (c) to assess the extent to which the thought of   each may or may not be a helpful resource for analyzing contemporary moral problems and providing   ethical guidelines for their resolution. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 806: Theology and Literature
	This course explores the theological relevance of literature through an examination of contemporary fiction   and examines the benefits and limitations of writing theology in the form of fiction. (Requires TF 701/702  or equivalent)		

STH TT 811: Mysticism &amp; Philosophy: Medieval Jewish
	Thematic introduction to mysticism and philosophy, with a focus on dynamics of religious experience.   Readings from medieval Jewish philosophy, Kabbalah, Biblical interpretation, Sufi-inspired mysticism,   poetry from the Golden Age of Muslim Spain. Attention to interactions with Islamic philosophy and   mysticism. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 813: Proseminar in Science and Religion
	Quantum entanglement is one of the most remarkable ideas to have emerged from physics in the twentieth    century. Identified as a consequence of quantum theory already in the 1920s, it was not confirmed as a    physical phenomenon until the 1980s. The broader implications of living in an "entangled" world are only    beginning to be felt outside the walls of physics. This course explores the significance of quantum    entanglement for theological reflection on creaturely and divine relationality. (Requires TF 701/702 or  equivalent)		

STH TT 815: Introduction to Chinese Religion
	An introduction to the history of the intellectual and spiritual development of  the Confucian tradition from   its beginnings to the modern period in China, Korea,  and Japan. Special emphasis is placed on the classical   and Neo-Confucian phases,  as well as on contemporary Confucian-Christian dialogue. (Requires TF  701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 816: Atheisms and Theologies
	The general aim of this course is learn about varieties of atheism-older  "classic atheism," so-called "new  atheism" of recent years, and theologically inspired forms of atheism-and to understand the various  theological responses to atheism. Questions of particular importance are: (1) How strong are traditional  and new atheistic arguments? (2) Where does or should theology stand in relation to the arguments of  atheism? (3) What are the origins of modern atheism? (4) Should postmodern mystical theologies and  iconoclastic anti-anthropomorphic theologies that reject a determinate divine being be considered  atheistic? If so how does this sort of atheism relate to other types? The class is intended for advanced  masters students and doctoral candidates interested in con-temporary theology and its conceptual roots in  older theological debates. Meets with STH TT 956. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 818: Development of Christian Thought: The Holy Spirit
	A re-examination of Spirit is essential to post-9/11 Christianity and an understanding of God's presence  and activity in our time. This course explores this claim and seeks to provide students with both a  historical and constructive study of a doctrine of the Holy Spirit. Tracking the Spirit through the Christian  tradition, from the biblical texts in Genesis to the present day, we will focus on the major movements in  which a doctrine of the Spirit takes precedence, i.e. the Reformation, Quakerism, the Holiness movement,  Pentecostalism, and African-American gospel traditions. Exploring the rich textual imagery and embodied  testimonies associated with Spirit, we will explore the connections between Spirit and issues of justice,  reconciliation, suffering, and healing. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 819: Institute for Philosophy and Religion
	This course, taught in the fall, runs in tandem with the annual program of the  Institute for Philosophy and Religion (www.bu.edu/ipr) and affords students the  opportunity for in-depth exploration of the issues and texts related to each  year's series.		

STH TT 821: Topics in Philosophy and Future of Religion
	Examines key questions in the contemporary philosophy of religion, including the possibility of religion   without God, "naturalized" or scientific views of religion, religious pluralism, and inter-religious tolerance.   Featuring visiting lecturers in fall Institute for Philosophy and Religion lecture series. (Requires TF 701/702  or equivalent)		

STH TT 824: Scientific Approach to Religion
	This seminar examines interpretations of religious beliefs, behaviors, and experiences deriving from the    biological, evolutionary, psychological, cognitive, neurological, and medical sciences. (Requires TF 701/702  or equivalent)		

STH TT 825: John Wesley's Theology Today
	The theology of John Wesley, though projected from an historical past, is a living and dynamic force in  contemporary theology. This course examines the primary doctrinal, methodological, and practical  commitments of John Wesley?s theology as developed in his sermons, hymns, writings, and life-praxis.   The course also explores contemporary trends in Methodism and in Wesleyan theology more generally as  they attempt to respond to the present theological situation and to the future prospects of a Christian faith  lived out in the twenty-first century. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

STH TT 828: Liberal Evangelical Christianity
	The general aim of this course is to learn about the history, sociology,  theology, and ethics of the tension  between liberals and evangelicals that has  persisted among Protestant Christians within the United States,  under various  names, since early in the nineteenth century. The specific aim is to situate a  variety of  moderate possibilities within this tension. These range from mid- twentieth-century movements such Neo- Evangelicalism (represented by Billy Graham  and Carl Henry, among others) and the hearty reception of  famous preacher Harry  Emerson Fosdick, who defined himself as 'liberal evangelical'; through the   revolutionary social visions of evangelicals such as Ron Sider and Tony Campolo,  the cultural critique of  Jim Wallis and the Sojourners Community, and the  Christian pacificism of Anabaptists such as John Howard  Yoder; to the green  evangelicals, liberal evangelicals, evangelical liberals, progressive  evangelicals, and  radical moderates of today. The class is intended for master's  students interested in the liberal-evangelical  tension and especially in the  prospects for transcending that tension both in individual faith identities and   in congregational contexts. The class should help participants become more  articulate communicators and  more effective leaders around issues bearing on  this tension. (Requires TF 701/702 or equivalent)		

