LAW BK 903: Financial Services Law Internship
	This course seeks to give students real world experience in the practice of  financial services law by immersing them in the day-to-day operations of a law  firm, financial services organization or regulatory agency. Students are  expected to work under the supervision of a lawyer and a faculty advisor who  will ensure that the students have a meaningful, relevant and rigorous  experience. It is expected that the Internship will involve a minimum of ten  hours workplace experience per week. The Graduate Progam will exercise its best  efforts to arrange internships at local law firms, financial services firms, or  governmental bodies. Participation is subject to availability of positions and a  matching of student interests with the organizations¡¦ needs.   Awarding of  credits will be on a pass-fail basis and will not be included in the student's  cumulative GPA. Credit will be based on reports submitted by the student. The  internship is open only to full-time students who are enrolled in at least 6  other credit subjects during the semester in which the internship occurs. Unless  waived by the Director, this course is open only to students who are studying  for the concentration in Financial Services Transactions, for which it is a  requirement.		

LAW BK 912: Introduction to the American Legal System
	This course focuses principally on three areas: (1) the use of case law as a  primary source of American law, including analysis of cases, reasoning from  prior cases, the evolution of case law, and the case method of teaching; (2) the  structure of the American legal system and selected elements of Constitutional  law, such as allocation of powers among the three branches of government, the  relationship between federal and state courts, due process of law, equal  protection, and other key concepts; and (3) a brief introduction to particular  private law subjects such as contracts, intellectual property, criminal  procedure and torts. The goal is to provide insight into the methods used by  American lawyers in dealing with legal questions and an introduction to the  structural and substantive legal framework within which American lawyers  operate. This course is no longer a required course for students who did not  obtain their first law degree at a law school in the United States. However,  foreign-educated students planning to sit for a bar examination in the United  States, especially the New York State Bar Examination, must take this course,  which is only offered in the fall semester.  		

LAW BK 925: Banking Structure and Regulation
	This course provides an overview of the regulation and supervision of the  banking and financial services industry under both US federal and state law  focusing on the regulatory structure, regulatory bodies and the principal types  of regulation. The course will focus on the legal structure as well as evolving  public policy behind the laws and regulations.  Recent initiatives to reform  bank regulatory systems including the Dodd-Frank Act in the US and Basel III  standards globally receive close scrutiny. Attention is also paid to the  regulation of entry, geographic expansion, capital, reserves, investments,  lending and interest. Traditional and non-traditional activities of financial  institutions and affiliates as provided in US federal law, such as securities  and insurance activities, mergers and acquisitions, and antitrust will be  examined. Emphasis will also be placed on deposit insurance, consumer protection  laws, bank examination/enforcement, bank failures and the duties of bank  officers and directors. Students are asked to compose a comment letter to a bank  regulatory agency as a means of exposure to the intricacies of administrative  law and to participate in classroom presentations regarding course subject  matter and current events impacting the financial services industry.  This is a  required course for all students studying for the Master of Laws degree in  Banking and Financial Law.		

LAW BK 931: Compliance Programs
	The course is a survey of the key areas of compliance.  The course will examine  implementing and maintaining a compliance program.  Topic areas to be covered  include: U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; the Office of Foreign Assets  Control; Bank Secrecy Act; Privacy; Investigations; Whistleblower Rates;  Information Reporting/Disclosure; Insider Trading Policies; Code of Ethics;  Audit; Conflict of Interest; Management Reporting; Internal Reporting/E- Discovery/Record Retention.		

LAW BK 933: Bankruptcy
	This course examines bankruptcy and related state law from the point of view of  secured and unsecured creditors.  The course begins with survey of individual  state law collection remedies and non-bankruptcy composition and liquidation  schemes.  The balance (and bulk) of the course focuses on the rights,  obligations and procedures created by federal bankruptcy law.  Topics addressed  include:  the automatic stay, the use and protection of collateral during the  pendency of a bankruptcy case, the avoidance of pre-bankruptcy transfers as  preferences and fraudulent transfers, the treatment of executory contracts and  unexpired leases, debtor-in-possession financing, asset sales and the  negotiation and confirmation of a plan of reorganization that is binding on all  creditors.  Finally, the course will discuss recent ¡§bankruptcy reform¡¨  legislation, which affects both corporate and consumer bankruptcies.		

LAW BK 934: Hedge Funds
	Assets being managed by hedge funds have grown significantly during the past 10  years. As a result, managers of hedge funds have been the focus of increased  scrutiny by investors, the press and regulatory authorities. This course will  cover the regulations (and exemptions) applicable to hedge funds and their  managers, including under the Securities Act of 1933, the Investment Company Act  and the Investment Advisers Act. We will focus on the formation and operation of  U.S. and offshore hedge funds, including structure, disclosure, risks and  economic and liquidity terms. This will include a detailed review of hedge fund  offering documents. We will discuss the many issues being considered by hedge  fund managers and regulators, including valuation, conflicts of interest,  insider trading and compliance.		

LAW BK 935: Microfinance and Development
	This course provides an introduction to the field of microfinance, particularly  its rapid evolution and role in economic development. Students will learn key  concepts including the study of lending methodologies, products available to  micro-entrepreneurs and the legal challenges, public policy considerations, and  risks faced by investors, technical experts and financial providers. This course  will also examine financial practices in the developing world such as payment  and remittance systems, which allow foreign nationals to transfer funds  internationally within and outside traditional banking systems.   		

LAW BK 941: Professional Responsibility
	This course will provide an overview of a lawyer's professional and ethical  obligations under United States law. It will examine the American Bar  Association's Model Rules of Professional Conduct, the ABA Model Code of  Professional Responsibility and the Restatement (Third) of the Law Governing  Lawyers as they apply to the practicing lawyer.  The course explores ethical  issues, and tensions and dilemmas that arise in the practice of law,  particularly in the representation of financial institutions.  Students will  have the chance to examine these issues through discussions of current events  affecting the financial services industry.		

LAW BK 943: Corporations
	This course focuses on the legal structure and attributes of business  corporations. Topics include pre-incorporation transactions, formation of  corporations, capital structure and financing of corporations, mergers and sales  of assets. The course will place particular emphasis upon the powers, rights and  duties allocated among boards of directors, officers and shareholders, as well  as the respective roles played by state corporate law (in particular, Delaware  law), federal law, and the courts.            		

LAW BK 950: Pooled Funds and Investor Protection
	Pooled investment funds, such as pension plans and mutual funds, are an  important part of the global financial services industry. This course is  designed as a survey of pooled funds and seeks to introduce students to the  common regulatory themes that are found across pooled fund types, and to  identify the unique approaches to regulation applicable to the various pooled  fund types studied. The course undertakes an analysis of the legal, regulatory  and fiduciary standards that apply to trustees, managers, advisers, and sponsors  of collective investment vehicles. The course focuses on the concept of  fiduciary duty as the basis of all trusted relationships, and examines selected  problems of investor and beneficiary protection in the fields of private and  public pension plans and mutual funds. It studies in detail two U.S. federal  statutes as examples of legal techniques used to mitigate those risks--ERISA and  the Investment Company Act of 1940 (including fiduciary duties, the role of the  fund board and management fees). The class then studies pooled investment funds  and investment trusts in the E.U., the U.K. and other countries, focusing on the  perceived risks and protective measures reflected in their legal and regulatory  systems. Not offered fall 2013.		

LAW BK 955: Securities Regulation
	A survey and analysis of key problems arising under the Securities Act of 1933,  the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the rules promulgated thereunder. These  problems include the form and content of registration statements under the 1933  Act, liabilities of persons designated in Section 11 and 12 of the 1933 Act, the  form and content of a typical Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Statement,  processing a registration statement, exemptions under the 1933 Act, the  underwriter's liability, the control person's "distribution;" regulation of  securities exchanges and broker-dealers, manipulation, stabilization, and "Hot  Issues;" tender offers; and civil liabilities under rule 10b-5, section 14(a),  and Section 16(b) of the 1934 Act. 		

LAW BK 957: Introduction to Project Finance
	This course focuses on the structure, documentation and negotiation of a typical  project finance transaction. The class will explore legal, financial, and policy  problems involved in investing in domestic and cross-border power and  infrastructure projects. We will focus on strategies and techniques of  structuring and financing such investments, and will touch upon the legal and  regulatory environment for investment, and in the context of foreign investment,  the role of political risk management and the implications of treaties,  conventions, and other relevant law. Selected domestic and cross-border  investment transactions, both actual and hypothetical, will be used to  illustrate recurring issues. This course may contain a graded group drafting  component where students draft and negotiate a loan agreement. 		

LAW BK 958: Transnational Lending and Trade Financing
	This course examines legal issues arising in debt financing provided by  financial institutions in international markets. The structure of transnational  loan agreements, guarantees, letters of credit, participation and loan sales  transactions, and basic instruments and documents common to trade financing are  examined. The nature of the documentation and techniques used in such  transactions, as well as regulatory patterns, legal problems and international  law reform efforts, are studied. The course also covers issues related to the  syndication of debt financing transactions, governing law, and creditor  remedies.		

LAW BK 960: Thesis Seminar
	This course provides an opportunity for students to conduct in-depth research on  topics covered in the program and to improve their writing skills. Each student  prepares a paper on a topic chosen in consultation with the instructor and  presents his or her findings to the class. Students edit one another's drafts  and participate in critiques during class sessions. A text and other materials  are used in discussions of effective legal writing. The seminar may satisfy a  concentration requirement depending on the subject of the paper. It is open to a  limited number of second-semester students with permission of the instructor. 		

LAW BK 972: Uniform Commercial Code
	Secured Transactions explores the "how-to's" of asset-based lending and,  particularly, the way in which a lender or seller of commercial goods on credit  protects its rights in the debtor's collateral under Article 9 of the Uniform  Commercial Code and the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The subject matter is approached  from the perspective of practice skills in representing a lender and a  commercial debtor. Students are responsible for case and problem recitation, as  well as problem solving in a team environment.  		

LAW BK 983: Central Banks, Commercial Banks, and Financial Markets
	This course introduces lawyers to the economics of financial markets and  institutions. Emphasis is placed on the interaction of commercial banks, the  Federal Reserve System, and monetary policy. Other topics include the  characteristics of financial instruments (such as Treasury securities, corporate  stocks and bonds, and secondary market mortgage-backed securities), how they are  priced in the market, the factors determining the level and shape of the  Treasury yield curve, and the relationship between commercial banking and the  growth of the over-the-counter derivatives market. Course grades will be based  on midterm and final examinations, and on written assignments. 		

LAW BK 987: Securitization
	Securitization and structured finance together constitute one of the most  dynamic segments of the financial markets. Securitization involves the creation  and issuance of securities backed by one or more assets which generate cash  flows sufficient to fund the securities. Structured finance includes  securitization as well as transactions in which securities are not issued, but  which involve the often complex structuring of cash flows to achieve a desired  tax, accounting or financial objective. These transactions often cut across many  areas of legal specialization, including bank and thrift regulation, securities  regulation, taxation, bankruptcy and insolvency, fiduciary law, real estate law  and environmental law. This course examines a series of actual transactions to  explore the sometimes contradictory ways that these various legal constructs  impinge upon the structuring transactions. Examples include single-family  mortgage pools, trade receivable securitizations and commercial mortgage  securitizations. This course also explores some of the more cutting-edge  securitizations of exotic asset classes such as legal fees, intellectual  property and renewable energy assets.		

LAW BK 988: Mergers and Acquisitions
	This course deals with key issues that arise in bank mergers and acquisitions.  Business and transactional topics include: merger and acquisition strategies,  deal structure and pricing, hostile takeovers and defenses, duties of directors,  disclosure obligations, due diligence, mergers of equals, social issues, tax  considerations, and accounting issues. Regulatory topics include: federal and  state approval processes, regulatory considerations in the structuring of  transactions, antitrust considerations, interstate banking issues, the Community  Reinvestment Act, thrift and other nonbank acquisitions, Glass-Steagall and Bank  Holding Company Act issues, and cross-industry transactions. 		

LAW BK 990: Government Regulation of Insurance
	The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), better known as health  care reform, is the most important  and controversial piece of federal social  legislation of this generation.  It is also basically an insurance regulatory  statute. PPACA establishes a new and complex set of rules governing the  operation of the health insurance industry, provides consumers with important  rights with respect to access to medical care and imposes obligations with  respect to health insurance on both businesses and individuals.  The course will  look at PPACA and the issues that surrounded its enactment--issues which  continue to fuel debate over whether it should modified or repealed. This will  be done as part of an examination of the regulatory rules that govern all of  insurance industry?s products (annuities, auto, home owners? product liability,  life insurance, etc).  The course also takes a look at the insurance industry?s  structure and financial performance and at the competitive interactions between  the insurance, banking and securities industries. The impact on the industry of  the financial crisis of 2008 and the resulting Dodd-Frank reform legislation  will be reviewed. 		

LAW BK 991: Commercial Lending
	This course studies the legal problems involved in documenting various types of  financing transactions ranging from short-term unsecured loans which are based  on the borrower's general credit to long-term, asset-based financings in which  the lender does not have recourse to the borrower's general assets. The  documentation process is followed from the preparation of the initial term sheet  through the rendering of legal opinions at closing. The major aspects of a loan  agreement, specifically representations and warranties, lending provisions,  closing conditions, pricing, covenants, and defaults, are studied in detail in  an effort to insure that each student understands the mechanics of a financing  transaction. The special legal problems involved in inventory and receivables  financing, project financing, construction credits, and leasing transactions are  highlighted. Subordination agreements, participation agreements, and other  inter-creditor arrangements are discussed. The provisions of the Bank Holding  Company Act that relate to financing transactions, bank legal lending limits,  margin requirements, and usury are considered. A discussion format is employed  to the extent feasible, and problems and illustrations are used to focus and  encourage class participation. The grade is based on a final examination, class  participation and a brief analytical paper. 		

LAW BK 995: Consumer Financial Services
	This class presents an overview of the laws relating to traditional and innovative consumer financial products and services, including the impact of the new consumer protection provisions of the Dodd-Frank banking law on creditors and consumers.  The course focuses on federal consumer financial laws governing installment, revolving, and real estate lending, credit and debit cards; and ATM networks, point of sale payment systems, home banking, stored value and prepaid cards; and other deposit and loan products and services. The course examines the design of retail financial products and considers operational issues, the regulatory framework, and consumer protection laws including The Consumer Financial Protection Act, Truth in Lending, Equal Credit Opportunity, Community Reinvestment Acts, and federal and state laws governing fair credit reporting, trade practices, usury, electronic funds transfers, and funds availability. 		

LAW JD 605: Business Fundamentals
	Introduction to Business Fundamentals is an online, self-paced, asynchronous program forming a required part of the JD curriculum. The curriculum consists of modules covering business basics, corporate finance and financial accounting, including the following subjects: capital markets; the basics of financial reporting; balance sheets; income statements and cash flow; business forms and organizations; financing organizations; discounting; and calculating risk, return and valuation. Assessment is based on multiple choice exams. Students may opt-out of the course if they score an 85% or better on the pre-course exam. A score of 70% or better on the post-course exam, following successful completion of the course, is necessary to meet the requirement.   GRADING NOTICE: This course awards no credits and is graded CR/NC. It is a graduation requirement for JD students who will be graduating with the Class of 2017 or later. Students may enroll in the program for the fall, spring or summer semesters, but should complete the course by the conclusion of the fall semester of the 3L year.		

LAW JD 606: Legislation
	Examines the lawmaking process in legislatures, theories and rules of statutory interpretation in the courts, and the relationships among statutory law, administrative law, common law, and constitutional law.		

LAW JD 607: Lawyering Lab
	The one-week intensive Lawyering Lab guides students to bring to bear legal concepts, core practice competencies and practical judgment to address simulated client problems and achieve a client's objectives within the bounds of the law --the essence of what clients hire attorneys to do.   This is done through lectures to provide necessary background, but more importantly through interactive discussion and "hands-on" exercises--both in and outside of class--that require students to actually do what lawyers do in solving client problems and achieving their objectives.    This includes (1) determining the client's goals; (2) determining the legal constraints and opportunities that affect the client's ability to get what it wants; (3) determining the relevant facts; (4) identifying multiple options for action; (5) assessing the various options to generate possible recommendations, (6) counseling the client; and (7) negotiating and drafting agreements.  1 credit, pass-fail.		

LAW JD 700: Introduction to American Law
	The class covers the basic structure and function of US legal institutions: the congress, the president, and regulatory agencies, and, especially, the federal courts. It examines the role of state law and state courts in the American system of federalism. The course also studies the American judicial processes of constitutional analyses, interpretation of statues, and development of common law. Some attention is paid to court procedures, including trial by jury. Finally, students study a few topics that are illustrative of the treatment of individual rights in American law, such as freedom of speech, anti-discrimination law, and protection of private property. The class grants two credits towards the American Law degree.		

LAW JD 701: Prof Resp/Llm
			

LAW JD 702: Property for LL.M. Students
	This course exposes LL.M. students to the basic principles of real property law, including possession, ownership, rights in land, conveyances, estates, future interests, real estate contracts, easements, land use disputes, landlord-tenant issues, and land use controls, among others.  The course is designed to provide a fundamental understanding of the essential doctrines of real property law for LL.M. students interested in taking a U.S. bar exam.		

LAW JD 703: Evidence for LLM Students
	This course provides LL.M. students with an overview of the substantive rules governing the admissibility or exclusion of evidence at trial.  Subjects include competency of witnesses, direct and cross-examination of witnesses, the rule against hearsay and its exceptions, expert and lay opinion testimony, privileged communications, relevancy, procedural considerations, judicial notice, burden of proof, presumptions, form and type of objections, authentication, the best evidence rule and the use of demonstrative and scientific evidence.  The course is designed to give students a fundamental understanding of evidentiary rules in anticipation of taking a US bar exam.		

LAW JD 704: Tutorial
			

LAW JD 705: Cr Culture Ext
			

LAW JD 706: Writing Supplements
	Students enrolled in selected upper-class courses have the option of enrolling in one-credit Writing Supplements to these courses.  Designed for students who are interested in practicing in the areas covered by the course, these one-credit supplements are taught by experienced attorneys who practice in these areas. In collaboration with the professor teaching the substantive course, the practitioner instructs students in drafting documents related to the substantive coursework.  For example, a writing supplement to a family law class could include separation agreements, custody agreements or restraining orders.  Writing sections consist of one introductory meeting and a number of follow up meetings (specific dates TBD) to discuss drafts in progress.  Because enrollment is limited, you will receive substantial feedback and individualized instruction. NOTE:  This seminar satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement. NOTE:  Fall 2014 Section A1 - Supplement to Trusts, Wills &amp; Basic Estate Planning.  Fall 2014 Section B1 - Supplement to Family Law. Spring 2015 Section C1 - Supplement to Trusts, Wills &amp; Basic Estate Planning.		

LAW JD 707: Human Trafficking
	This course is required for students accepted to the Human Trafficking Clinic (JD708).  The course will examine international, federal, and state mechanisms to combat human trafficking.  The course will also evaluate comparative models for criminal prosecution and protection of survivors.  The course will explore serious enforcement challenges in a variety of contexts, including victim compensation, employment rights, immigration relief, and criminal prosecution.  Moreover, the class will receive training in client counseling techniques, focusing on the unique challenges when working with vulnerable communities, such as trafficking survivors.   PREREQUISITE/COREQUISITE: Immigration Law (JD968) and Evidence (JD831).		

LAW JD 708: Human Trafficking Clinic
	The Human Trafficking Clinic offers a unique opportunity for students to work on legal cases of human trafficking, a widespread and serious human rights violation. Clinic students provide a variety of legal services, including direct representation of non-citizens trafficked into the United States, advocacy for trafficking survivors, and community education and training. In particular, Clinic students directly represent trafficking survivors to apply for a T-visa, a special form of immigration relief for trafficking survivors and/or in removal (deportation) proceedings before the Boston Immigration Court. Students also will collaborate with a variety of stakeholders, including survivors of human trafficking, law enforcement, government officials, and non-governmental organizations, to identify solutions to combat human trafficking. Through their clinical experience, students will increase their knowledge of trafficking law and learn fundamentals of lawyering, while providing a valuable service to survivors who would otherwise be unrepresented. The Human Trafficking Course examines international, federal, and state mechanisms to combat human trafficking. The course also evaluates comparative models for criminal prosecution and protection of survivors. The course will explore serious enforcement challenges in a variety of contexts, including victim compensation, employment rights, immigration relief, and criminal prosecution. Moreover, the class will receive training in client counseling techniques, focusing on the unique challenges when working with vulnerable communities, such as trafficking survivors. To apply: Applications will be available on-line following the Open House. Applications will be due April 19, 2014. CO-REQUISITE: Students must also register for JD 707.		

LAW JD 709: Independent Proposal Externship: Fieldwork (C)
	This is a clinical progam.  Students must apply and be accepted before registering for this course.  Through the Independent Proposal Externship, students may receive credit for an externship done in conjunction with an independent study project. This option is available to students only if there are no spots available in one of our other externship offerings.  The Fieldwork  Students receive 3-5 variable credits for the fieldwork, determined as follows:  3 credits = 150 hours total (about 12 hrs/wk);  4 credits = 200 hours total (about 15-16 hrs/wk);  5 credits = 250 hours total (about 20 hrs/wk).  Qualifying internships may be at a non-profit, government, or in-house counsel placement. An internship may be at a law firm, but only if the student works solely on pro bono assignments. For all placements, the student must be supervised by an attorney, and must work on projects typically handled by an attorney.   COREQUISITE: INDEPENDENT PROPOSAL EXTERNSHIP: PAPER (LAW JD 710)		

LAW JD 710: Independent Proposal Externship: Paper
	This is a clinical program.  Students must apply and be accepted before registering for this course.  Students work under the guidance of a faculty member and earn three credits for writing a paper and submitting journals. The paper must be at least 30 pages in length. There are eight journals due (5-7 pages each). Students may satisfy the upperclass writing requirement through the paper, under agreement of the sponsoring faculty member. COREQUISITE: INDEPENDENT PROPOSAL EXTERNSHIP (LAW JD 709).		

LAW JD 711: Judicial Writing (S)
	This course will focus on writing styles and formats unique to the judicial process, such as the bench memo and appellate majority and dissenting opinion.  Classes will provide a general overview of the opinion writing function with emphasis on topics such as opinion structure, judicial writing style, the relationship between style and substance, the use of narrative and rhetorical techniques, and ethical considerations in opinion writing. Through a series of writing assignments and in-class exercises, students will learn to how to diagnose and revise difficult and unclear writing, acquire techniques for writing more economically, precisely and unambiguously, and hone their skills in structuring and organizing, analyzing, and writing persuasively.  In analyzing judicial opinions and writing from the perspective of a judge rather than an advocate, students will gain a deeper understanding of the judicial process and will become better critical readers and users of judicial opinions.  ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 14 students. NOTES:  This seminar satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement.  This seminar does not satisfy the Upper-class Writing Requirement. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 712: Legal Writing for Civil Litigation (S)
	This class is designed to give students a variety of legal writing experiences, all related to civil litigation.  Students will draft a variety of documents, including discovery-related documents, pleadings, and motions.  Students will complete multiple drafts of these documents, meet individually with the instructor to discuss the drafts, and engage in peer editing of their classmates' papers.  Students will work with a single fact pattern throughout the semester, and will conduct extensive research as part of the course.  In class, students will discuss litigation strategy, research skills and ethical and professional concerns.  In addition, the class will also include in-class writing exercises designed to improve the students' writing skills.  ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 18 students.  NOTES:  This seminar satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement.  This seminar does not satisfy the Upper-class Writing Requirement. GRADING NOTICE:  This seminar does not offer the CR/NC/H option. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 713: Persuasive Writing (S)
	This seminar will focus on improving students' persuasive writing skills through a series of assignments and in-class exercises. Students will draft a variety of documents designed to persuade, including a statement of the facts and memos in support of motions. Some legal research will be necessary for these assignments, but the emphasis will be on writing, not on research. Students will complete multiple drafts of these documents, meet individually with the instructor to discuss the drafts, and engage in peer editing of their classmates' papers to improve their own writing skills. The class will also include discussions of persuasive writing strategies, comparisons of examples of good and bad persuasive writing, and in-class writing exercises. Students will be graded on the basis of their written work, their peer editing work, and on their classroom participation. There will be no final exam. ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 14 students.  NOTES: This seminar does not satisfy the Upper-class Writing Requirement.  This seminar satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 715: Constitutional History: The Founding Years (S)
	This seminar will investigate constitutional history, from the years leading to the American Revolution through the coming of the Civil War, from several different angles, including presidential leadership, judicial interpretation, and legislative mandates. We will also consider how society at large debated, influenced, and helped shape the early Republic and its constitutionalism, paying particular attention to the themes of fluidity, contingency, and participation, and to the meaning of the phrase, "sovereignty of the people."  We will examine how law, society, and politics inextricably mixed to set American constitutional development on particular paths that were not predetermined. Topics to be covered will include constitutional thought before and during the Revolution, the constitutional impact of the break with Britain, the origins and drafting of the Constitution, the political thought of various Founders, the development and implications of judicial review, launching the Republic during the administrations of Washington, Adams, Jefferson, and Madison, and the growth of democracy in the Republic in the aftermath of the War of 1812.  No prior history background is necessary. LIMITED WRITING REQUIREMENT OPTION:  A limited number of students may be permitted to satisfy the upper-class writing requirement with the approval of the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs. OFFERING PATTERN: This class is not offered every year.  Students are advised to take this into account when planning their long-term schedule. **A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.**		

LAW JD 719: Transactional Contracts:  Drafting and Analyzing Transactional Agreements under U.S. Law  (for foreign-trained LL.M. students)
	This course is for foreign-trained LL.M. students.  It teaches students basic principles and skills of drafting and analyzing transaction and other business agreements under U.S. law, with a focus on recognizing, and addressing through contractual provisions, key business issues in various transactional contexts, including asset purchases and sales, intellectual property licensing and employment agreements.  While the course utilizes lectures to introduce various contract concepts and techniques essential for drafting and analyzing transaction and other commercial agreements, it requires that students complete in-class exercises and homework assignments as a means of building basic drafting skills and a solid understanding of the structure and operation of contractual provisions in a business transaction under U.S. law.  Grades will be based on the graded assignments, good faith completion of ungraded assignments, and class participation.		

LAW JD 720: Remedies
	The course explores the principal remedies available through civil litigation, including compensatory damages, injunctions, declaratory judgments, restitution, and punitive damages, along with remedial defenses. It covers both private-law and public-law remedies. The course examines general principles about the law of remedies that cut across substantive fields and that will be useful to a student or lawyer encountering a remedies problem in any context. It also takes up debates concerning whether law and economics or corrective justice provides a better account of the aims and underlying principles of the law of remedies. The course will be of considerable practical value to anyone interested in civil litigation.		

LAW JD 721: Advanced Topics in Civil Procedure - Court Access
	This seminar will examine the political, institutional, and constitutional constraints and forces that shape the rules governing litigation in the federal courts. Particular attention will be given to ways that access to the federal courts has been narrowed in the last three decades using procedural rules. Readings will focus on selected topics of federal civil procedure, including class actions, attorneys' fees, injunctive remedies, and full-faith and credit.  Students will have two options for satisfying the writing requirement: they may write (1) a seminar paper, or (2) three medium-length policy or response papers. Students will also be required to present their written work. To that end we will dedicate several sessions to student presentations of papers or works-in-progress.		

LAW JD 722: Environmental Justice Law
	  Environmental Justice can be defined as the fair treatment and meaningful involvement of all people, regardless of race, color, national origin, or income with respect to the development, implementation, and enforcement of environmental laws and policies.  Over the last two decades efforts to secure environmental justice have become important features of environmental policy and activism.  This course will explore why environmental justice concerns have arisen, and what legal mechanisms may be used to address them.  We will identify current situations where claims of environmental injustice might be made, and examine how existing legal tools, including the 1964 Civil Rights Act and federal environmental statutes, might be applied to deal with them.  The final grade will be determined by grades received on two short papers (each maximum 1,200 words; each 25% of the final grade); a final take-home exam (maximum 1,200 words; 40%); and class participation (10%), based on the quality, not quantity, of the contributions made. OFFERING PATTERN: This class not offered every year.  Students are advised to take this into account when planning their long-term schedule.		

LAW JD 726: Health Care Fraud and Abuse (S)
	This seminar will use a practical, case-study approach to some of the issues arising in the complex world of health care enforcement and compliance.  With emphasis on the procedural mechanisms of the False Claims Act and the substantive law of the Anti-Kickback Act, the Stark I and II laws, the Food Drug and Cosmetic Act, and the government's remedial authorities, the seminar will explore how prosecutors, defense attorneys, whistleblowers, and compliance officials inside health care companies approach their work and advise their clients.  The seminar will explore the relationships between regulated industries (e.g., pharmaceutical companies, hospitals, doctors, medical device companies) and government insurance programs (e.g., Medicaid and Medicare), why these relationships generate billions of dollars every year in fraud, and how the interested constituencies are approaching these issues.  NOTE: This seminar does not satisfy the Upper-class Writing Requirement. ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 12 students. OFFERING PATTERN: This class is not offered every year.  Students are advised to take this into account when planning their long-term schedule. **A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 728: Government Lawyering Externship/Fieldwork (C)
	The Government Lawyering Externship is a one-semester clinical program. Students are required to apply and be accepted to the program before they may register.  Accepted students must register for the ungraded fieldwork component and the graded seminar.  Through the Government Lawyering Externship Program (GLEP), students work at a state or federal agency. Upon acceptance to the Government Lawyering Externship Program program, the Office of Clinical Programs works with students to identify suitable field placements depending on each student's individual interests and career goals. The range of opportunities in the government is extensive and there are great options out there for every student.  COREQUISITE: Government Lawyering Seminar (JD 729)  NOTE: This clinic satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement.		

LAW JD 729: Government Lawyering Externship/Seminar
	The Government Lawyering Externship is a one-semester clinical program. Students are required to apply and be accepted to the program before they may register.  Accepted students register for the ungraded fieldwork component and this graded seminar.  The two hour weekly seminar will explore topics including determining who the "client" is for purposes of the attorney-client relationship, the interaction with other government agencies, ethical and moral considerations unique to government attorneys, and the impact of politics on the work of a government lawyer. Students will write weekly journals about their externship experience and will also write a final research paper. COREQUISITE: Government Lawyering Externship: Fieldwork (JD 728)		

LAW JD 731: Critical Race Theory (S)
	This seminar explores the utility of Critical Race Theory to the study of law.  Specifically, this seminar analyzes the centrality of the law in constructing and maintaining -- as well as dismantling -- racism, racial inequalities, and race itself.  The latter part of the seminar will consist of a sustained analysis of Critical Race Theory as it speaks to issues of gender and reproduction.  Students will write a research paper; with the permission of the instructor, this paper may satisfy the upper-class writing requirement. GRADING NOTICE:  This class will not offer the CR/NC/H option. **A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 732: Tax Law Research
	Tax law research is among the most complicated areas of the law to research.  Statutes, regulations and agency issuances interact to create a thickly layered set of legal precedents.  This class will explore the resources a tax professional would use to perform his or her research from legislative history to private letter rulings.  Students will become familiar with the research platforms outside of Lexis and Westlaw that are commonly used in practice.  Students will get practice in using many of the most heavily used practice materials.  Classes will combine instruction and hands-on exercises using the major print and electronic resources available for tax law research.  Students will be required to complete an assignment for each class.  NOTE:  This seminar satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement. NOTE: Students may not add this course after the first class has been held. This course meets October 23 through December 4.		

LAW JD 733: Intellectual Property Law Research
	Intellectual property is a multi-faceted area of practice where it is especially important to be able to keep up with current developments. Students will become familiar with practitioners' tools as well as learning the role of legislative history, sources for securing intellectual property rights and patent and trademark searching.  Legal information and technologies are constantly changing, and firms are constantly licensing new databases.  Become familiar with the specialized tools used by lawyers in intellectual property practices. Classes will combine instruction and hands-on exercises using major print, electronic, and web based resources for intellectual property law research. NOTE:  This seminar satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement. NOTE: Students may not add this course after the first class has been held.  This course meets October 24 through November 26.		

LAW JD 735: Judicial Externship: Fieldwork (C)
	The Judicial Externship is a one-semester clinical program. Students are required to apply and be accepted to the program before they may register. Through the Judicial Externship Program, you may work part-time for credit for a judge in the state or federal court system. As a judicial intern, you will work on assignments typically handled during a post-graduate clerkship.  You will spend 16-20 hrs./wk. at your field placement, earning 4-5 ungraded credits. COREQUISITE: Judicial Externship: Judicial Process Seminar (JD 736). NOTE: This clinic satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement.		

LAW JD 736: Judicial Externship: Judicial Process Seminar
	The Judicial Externship is a one-semester clinical program. Students are required to apply and be accepted to the program before they may register. In this seminar, which is the class component for the Judicial Externship Program, we will discuss several issues related to the roles of the judge and judicial intern.  We will discuss issues of confidentiality and ethical considerations applicable to judges and to interns and law clerks.  We also will explore the differences between trial and appellate courts, which set the parameters within which judges make decisions.  Students will receive advanced instruction in legal research and writing applicable to their placements.  We will discuss examples of effective and ineffective lawyering that interns observe in their placements.  We also will focus on the legal and philosophical foundations of judicial decision-making, and how those influence decisions.  Finally, we will discuss specialty courts, and processes that judges use to help parties resolve disputes, such as mediation and settlement.  Students will be required to write regular journals and a 15 page final paper.  Students may be required to do a class presentation.  There will be no final exam but students will be evaluated on their final paper, journals, class participation, and class presentation.  COREQUISITE: Judicial Externship/Fieldwork (JD 735).  NOTE: This seminar does NOT satisfy the professional responsibility requirement.   GRADING NOTICE: Dean Marx and Professor Knight's sections do not offer the CR/NC/H option.		

LAW JD 739: Semester-in-Practice: Independent Proposal (C)
	The Semester in Practice is a one-semester clinical program. Students are required to apply and be accepted to the program before they may register. Through the Semester-in-Practice Program, a limited number of students may spend a semester working full-time for credit (10 ungraded credits) at an externship placement outside of Boston. The Program is designed for students who want an intensive hands-on experience - at an opportunity not otherwise available in Boston - furthering specific career and academic goals. Acceptance to the Program is competitive. In addition to securing an externship at a placement organization, students must complete a separate BU Law application available through the Clinical Programs Office.  Under this option, students may develop their own proposal for a full-time externship outside of Boston.  COREQUISITE: Semester-in-Practice: Independent Paper (JD 740). NOTE: This clinic satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement.		

LAW JD 740: Semester-in-Practice: Independent Paper
	The Semester in Practice is a one-semester clinical program. Students are required to apply and be accepted to the program before they may register. Accepted students will register for 2 graded credits for completing readings, writing a research paper, and for submitting weekly journals.  COREQUISITE: Semester-in-Practice: Independent Proposal (JD 739).  		

LAW JD 741: Semester-in-Practice: Human Rights - Geneva (C)
	The Semester in Practice is a one-semester clinical program. Students are required to apply and be accepted to the program before they may register.     Through the Semester-in-Practice Program, a limited number of students may spend a semester working full-time for credit (10 ungraded credits) at an externship placement outside of Boston. The Program is designed for students who want an intensive hands-on experience - at an opportunity not otherwise available in Boston - furthering specific career and academic goals.  Acceptance to the Program is competitive. In addition to securing an externship at a placement organization, students must complete a separate BU Law application available through the Clinical Programs Office.  Through the Human Rights option, students may spend a semester working in Geneva for a Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) committed to the protection of human rights.   COREQUISITE: Semester-in-Practice: Human Rights Paper (JD 742). NOTE: This clinic satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement.		

LAW JD 742: Semester-in-Practice: Human Rights Paper
	The Semester in Practice is a one-semester clinical program. Students are required to apply and be accepted to the program before they may register. Accepted students will register for 2 graded credits for completing readings, writing a research paper, and for submitting weekly journals. COREQUISITE: Semester-in-Practice: Human Rights Externship - Geneva (JD 741).		

LAW JD 743: Semester-in-Practice: Death Penalty Externship (C)
	The Semester in Practice is a one-semester clinical program. Students are required to apply and be accepted to the program before they may register. Through the Semester-in-Practice Program, a limited number of students may spend a semester working full-time for credit (10 ungraded credits) at an externship placement outside of Boston. The Program is designed for students who want an intensive hands-on experience - at an opportunity not otherwise available in Boston - furthering specific career and academic goals.  Acceptance to the Program is competitive. In addition to securing an externship at a placement organization, students must complete a separate BU Law application available through the Clinical Programs Office.  Students participating in the Death Penalty Externship may work at the Southern Center for Human Rights in Atlanta, Georgia.   COREQUISITE: Semester-in-Practice: Death Penalty Paper (JD 744). NOTE: This clinic satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement.		

LAW JD 744: Semester-in-Practice: Death Penalty Paper
	The Semester in Practice is a one-semester clinical program. Students are required to apply and be accepted to the program before they may register. Accepted students will register for 2 graded credits for completing readings, writing a research paper, and for submitting weekly journals. COREQUISITE: Semester-in-Practice: Death Penalty Externship (JD 743). 		

LAW JD 745: Semester-in-Practice: Government Lawyering - Washington, D.C. (C)
	The Semester in Practice is a one-semester clinical program. Students are required to apply and be accepted to the program before they may register. Through the Semester-in-Practice Program, a limited number of students may spend a semester working full-time for credit (10 ungraded credits) at an externship placement outside of Boston. The Program is designed for students who want an intensive hands-on experience - at an opportunity not otherwise available in Boston - furthering specific career and academic goals. Acceptance to the Program is competitive. In addition to securing an externship at a placement organization, students must complete a separate BU Law application available through the Clinical Programs Office. Through the Government Lawyering option, students may spend a semester working at a government office in Washington. Examples include opportunities with the staff of a Congressional committee or subcommittee, in the legal office of an administrative agency, or with a federal board/commission.  COREQUISITE: Semester-in-Practice: Government Lawyering Paper (JD 746). NOTE: This clinic satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement.		

LAW JD 746: Semester-in-Practice: Government Lawyering Paper
	The Semester in Practice is a one-semester clinical program. Students are required to apply and be accepted to the program before they may register. Accepted students will register for 2 graded credits for completing readings, writing a research paper, and for submitting weekly journals. COREQUISITE: Semester-in-Practice: Government Lawyering - Washington, D.C. (JD 745).		

LAW JD 747: Discovery: Theory &amp; Practice (S)
	This seminar will involve an in-depth examination of discovery practice under the federal rules of civil procedure. The topics to be covered are set out below. Grades will be derived from a final paper, mini-quizzes and assignments, and classroom participation. There is no required text.  1. History and purpose of discovery.  2. Discovery abuse.  3. Rule 26. The scope of discovery and the major limitations on the scope of discovery.  4. Rule 26. The conference of the parties and planning for discovery. The impact of the local rules on discovery.  5. Rule 26. Self-executing disclosures and expert discovery.  6. e-discovery.  7. Written discovery. Rules 33, 34, and 36 (interrogatories, document requests, and requests for admission).  8. Deposition discovery. Rules 30-32. Rule 45 subpoenas.  9. Rule 37. Failure to cooperate in discovery. Sanctions.  10. Rule 37. Discovery motion practice.  11. Effective discovery.  NOTES: This seminar does not satisfy the Upper-class Writing Requirement.  This seminar satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement.  RESTRICTION:  Students who completed E-discovery (JD 795) may not enroll.  GRADING NOTICE:  This class does not offer the CR/NC/H option. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 762: Health Law Externship: Fieldwork (C)
	The Health Law Externship is a one semester clinical program where students work for credit at a non-profit health care organization. Students are required to apply and be accepted to the program before they may register.  Through the program, students gain hands-on legal experience under the supervision of practitioners who are experts in the health law field. The Health Law Externship is offered in the fall to 3Ls only (or 2Ls with a prior health law background may be considered with permission of Mr. Moulton). The spring semester is open to 2Ls and 3Ls alike, but preference will be given to 3Ls who have not taken the Civil Litigation Program or the Legal Externship Program.  Upon acceptance to the program, Mr. Ben Moulton works with students to identify suitable field placements depending on each student's individual interests and career goals. Once possible placement organizations are identified, students are responsible for applying to those organizations.  Before the semester begins, students work with their placement supervisors to determine how many hours they will work during the semester. The schedule must be approved by Mr. Moulton. Students must adhere to this schedule throughout the semester.  Students receive variable credits for the fieldwork component, determined as follows:  * 3 credits = 150 hours total: * 4 credits = 200 hours total; and * 5 credits = 250 hours total.   PREREQUISITE: Health Law (JD 867 in the Law School or LW 751 at the School of Public Health).  COREQUISITE: Health Law Externship: Seminar (JD 764).  NOTES: Participation in the Health Law Externship may count toward the Concentration in Health Law.  This clinic satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement.		

LAW JD 763: Administrative Law Research
	Many practice areas, from environmental law to immigration law, are heavily regulatory.  Learn about the structure of administrative law research, from enabling statutes to agency adjudication, in this class.  The class will focus on developing your understanding of the structure of administrative agencies and using the various sources of administrative law.  You will learn what information is available from government sources and what specialty publishers bring to the table with an emphasis on being cost effective in the workplace.  Classes will combine instruction and hands-on exercises using the major print, electronic and web based resources in administrative law. NOTE:  This seminar satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement. NOTE: Students may not add this course after the first class has been held. This course meets January 20 through March 3, 2015.		

LAW JD 764: Health Law Externship Seminar
	The Health Law Externship is a one semester clinical program where students work for credit at a non-profit health care organization. Students are required to apply and be accepted to the program before they may register. An integral part of the externship is a one hour weekly seminar examining various health law issues as well as the challenges of working in a non profit environment. The first meeting will orient you to the program; subsequent meetings will discuss the assigned readings in light of your experiences in the externship. The seminar requires students to write a paper and make a class presentation. In addition, each student keeps a weekly journal chronicling their educational experience and reactions to the practice of law observed at the field placements.  COREQUISITE: Health Law Externship Program: Fieldwork (JD 762).  NOTE: The Health Law Externship does not satisfy the professional responsibility requirement.		

LAW JD 765: Africa i-Parliaments Drafting &amp; Policy Clinic (C)
	The Africa i-Parliaments is a one-semester clinical program that will be offered in the fall.  Students must apply and be accepted to the program before they register.   In 2008, the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UN/DESA), initiated a new program called the African Parliamentary Knowledge Network (APKN) to build the capacity of African parliaments to draft and enact more effective legislation.  This clinic supports the APKN initiative by working with clients such as members of African Parliaments, government agencies, and regional government organizations.    An in-house clinic, students take advantage of the materials held in the BU Library's various Africa collections, the internet, and communications technology to consult with clients and gather information on various substantive projects.  Students work closely with student editors and the professors to produce high quality research reports and draft bill language.  Students also add value to APKN by reporting on recently passed African statutes and governmental reform for publication on the APKN's Africa Parliamentary Information Exchange (http://apex.apkn.org/) methodology.  Students receive 6 graded credits: 3 for the fieldwork and 3 for a weekly seminar. The weekly seminar focuses on the use of legislation for social change, the legislative processes of Africa, and evidence-based legislation. A limited number of students may satisfy the upperclass writing requirement through this clinic.   		

LAW JD 767: International Law &amp; the International Economy (S)
	 The objective of this course is to provide students with a broad overview of how international law shapes private and public behavior.  The course will introduce you to the ways that international law is relevant to almost every area of modern legal practice - from divorce and adoptions to cross-border disputes corporate mergers to securities litigation.   We will place private international economic law in its increasingly robust public international law context.  Topics may include international trade, international arbitration, international investment law, cross-border transactions, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. OFFERING PATTERN: This class not offered every year.  Students are advised to take this into account when planning their long-term schedule. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 768: Criminal Motions and Advocacy
	Advocacy courses in law school tend to focus on the traditional Trial Advocacy model (opening statements, direct and cross examinations, and closing arguments) or post-trial Appellate Advocacy.  The vast majority of cases, however, never reach trial.  Criminal Motion Practice and Advocacy will look comprehensively at the pre-trial motions that comprise the bulk of criminal litigation.  Students will have the opportunity to research, write, and argue their own pretrial motions against opposing counsel.  The course will travel chronologically through the life of a criminal case, beginning at arraignment and focusing on the art of motions practice.  In class exercises will include Motions to Dismiss based on the sufficiency of evidence, Motions to Suppress searches and seizures, Motions to Suppress Statements, and Motions to Suppress Identification.  Students will also be invited to observe criminal lawyers argue Superior Court motions in the Suffolk County Superior Court. NOTES: This course satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement. ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 18 students. GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option. PREREQUISITE: Criminal Procedure. ATTENDANCE REQUIREMENT: A student who fails to attend the first class or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the class. Students who are on the wait list for a section are required to attend the first meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 769: Compliance in Financial Services Companies (S)
	This Course deals with compliance mechanisms within large financial organizations. Compliance includes observing the law and following internal rules within the institution. The purpose of the Course is to offer a fundamental preparation to the lawyer in a large financial institution's Legal Department or a separate Compliance Department. This Course covers the following:  * The history of compliance within United States and global financial services companies;  * The interaction between business processes and compliance processes; and, in some respects, the law and its enforcement within organizations;  * The profession of compliance: The roles of the Chief Ethics &amp; Compliance Officer, The Auditor; the Legal Officer and the interaction among them * Defining best practice, business process, risk assessment and controls and their interactions within the global financial service company;  * A broad outline of regulations applicable to global financial services companies; the respective roles of corporate governance functions, such as: finance, internal audit, independent auditors, legal, compliance, and ethics departments, and risk management, and international issues.  * Asset management: an overview of the regulation of broker dealers, insurance, and banking. * Interacting with regulators, and investigations * Business ethics and culture in large organizations. The reading materials for the Course are prepared by Professor Lee D. Augsburger (Chief Compliance Officer of Prudential Insurance Company) and Professor Tamar Frankel.  Students will complete a take-home examination of approximately 7 hours. Grades will be adjusted for class preparation and participation.  ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who waitlist for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment. 		

LAW JD 770: Introduction to Financial Restructuring Practice (S)
	This seminar is designed to provide students with an introductory and practical understanding of certain fundamental aspects of corporate financial restructuring.  The seminar focuses on the representation of distressed companies, major creditors, and investors in high-stakes restructuring matters, with an emphasis on (i) comparing out-of-court and in-court restructuring alternatives for distressed companies and their stakeholders; (ii) benefits and risks associated with the commencement and administration of a case under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code; (iii) the typical timeline, major players, and milestones associated with the chapter 11 process; (iv) strategies for effective restructuring negotiations; and (v) "hot topic" controversies in recent chapter 11 cases.  Course materials will consist of recent court decisions and pleadings from noteworthy chapter 11 cases, and select articles concerning significant developments in restructuring law and practice.  In addition to class participation, grading will be based upon one term paper of approximately 12 - 15 pages in length.  NOTE:  This seminar does not satisfy the Upper-class Writing Requirement. This class will meet once every two weeks. Meeting dates are as follows: 9/4, 9/11, 10/9, 10/30, 11/13, 12/4 . **A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 772: Transaction Simulation: Sale of a Family Business and Related Real Estate
	 This course is one of the "capstone" semester-long transaction simulations offered as part of the School's Transactional Law Program. The simulated transaction involves the consolidation of ownership of a family-owned company in a manner and through agreements that address the differing expectations and interests of the company's two shareholders:  (i) the company's chief executive and majority owner seeking to obtain sole ownership of the business, and (ii) his sister, a minority shareholder not active in the business, seeking a risk-free separation from the business and an assured pay-out over time.  The company, whose main office is in Massachusetts, operates a chain of drugstores in three New England states and New York.  The company leases all the store sites from limited liability companies which own the properties and which are themselves owned by the chief executive and his sister in approximately the same proportions as their ownership of the company .       The course is intended to expose students to the principal tasks undertaken by both junior and more senior attorneys in this type of transaction, and in doing so to build skills students will need as they enter transactional practice.  The class will be divided into teams representing one of the participants in the transaction. Students will perform the key analytical, drafting and other legal tasks required to effectively represent their respective clients during various stages of the transaction from inception through closing, including the following:  * through review of client emails and through client interviews, understanding the clients' key business objectives,  * determining an appropriate transaction structure and types of agreement(s) to implement the same, * preparing and negotiating a letter of intent reflecting the material terms of the transaction, * preparing a due diligence checklist, conducting relevant due diligence and preparing a due diligence report to the client, * reviewing and negotiating key provisions of a definitive stock purchase agreement for the transaction,  * reviewing and negotiating key provisions of a lease and related real estate documentation to implement the real property aspects of the transaction,  * preparing board and stockholder approvals, and * preparing a closing agenda and closing documents, and completing the closing.  The course grade will be based on periodic drafting and other written assignments (both in-class and homework), contributions to team efforts, and class participation. CLASS SIZE:  Limited to 12 students. PREREQUISITES: Corporations and Contract Drafting  NOTES: This seminar does not satisfy the Upper-Class Writing Requirement. This seminar satisfies the Upper-Class Professional Skills Requirement.  RESTRICTION:  Students may only take one transaction simulation course during their time at BU Law. GRADING NOTICE:  This class will not offer the CR/NC/H option. ATTENDANCE REQUIREMENT: A student who fails to attend the first class or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the class. Students who are on the wait are required to attend the first meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 773: Transaction Simulation: Auction and Sale of a Private Company
	This course is one of the "capstone" semester-long transaction simulations offered as part of the School's Transactional Law Program. The simulated transaction is  the auction and sale of a privately-held company in the single-cup coffee brewing industry.   The course exposes students to the principal tasks undertaken by both junior and more senior attorneys in a private company auction and sale, and in doing so builds skills students will need as they enter transactional practice.   Students will perform the key analytical, drafting and other legal tasks required to effectively represent their client during various stages of the transaction from inception through closing, including the following:   * engaging a financial advisor; * reviewing  a confidential information memorandum;  * preparing and negotiating  confidentiality agreements with potential purchasers; * conducting a due diligence review; * evaluating initial indications of interest from potential purchasers;  * reviewing second round "final" bid letters;  * marking-up and negotiating  a form merger agreement; * preparing disclosure schedules; * drafting  various materials for use at a board of directors' meeting; and * preparing closing documents in connection with the closing of the transaction.  Some of the course work, including negotiations and drafting, will be done in teams representing the company being sold or a potential purchaser of that company. The course grade will be based on periodic drafting assignments (both in-class and homework), contributions to team efforts and individual class participation. CLASS SIZE: Limited to 12 students. PREREQUISITES: Corporations and Contract Drafting. NOTES: This course does not satisfy the Upper-Class Writing Requirement. This course satisfies the Upper-Class Professional Skills Requirement. RESTRICTION: Students may only take one transaction simulation course during their time at BU Law. GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option. ATTENDANCE REQUIREMENT: A student who fails to attend the first class or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the class. Students who are on the wait list are required to attend the first meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 774: Transaction Simulation: Transfer of a Shopping Center
	This course is one of the "capstone" semester-long transaction simulations offered as part of the School's Transactional Law Program. The simulated transaction involves the sale of an upscale shopping center which because of Federal Tax consequences, will be carried out through a master lease. The course is intended to expose students to the principal tasks undertaken by both junior and more senior attorneys in this type of transaction, and in so doing to build skills students will need as they enter transactional practice.  For much of the course, the class will be divided into teams representing the seller/lessor and buyer/lessee. Students will perform the key analytical, drafting and other legal tasks required to effectively represent their respective clients during various stages of the transaction from inception through closing, including the following:  through review of client emails and  client interviews, understanding the clients' key business objectives,  determining an appropriate transaction structure and types of agreement(s) to implement the same,  reviewing and revising a confidentiality agreement,  preparing and negotiating a letter of intent reflecting the material terms of the transaction,  preparing a due diligence checklist and conducting relevant due diligence,  reviewing and negotiating key provisions in the master lease,  preparing a closing agenda and closing documents, and completing the closing. The course grade will be based on periodic drafting and other written assignments (both in-class and homework), contributions to team efforts, and individual class participation. CLASS SIZE: Limited to 12 students. PREREQUISITES: Corporations and Contract Drafting (May be waived with the permission of the Instructors) NOTES: This course does not satisfy the Upper-Class Writing Requirement. This course satisfies the Upper-Class Professional Skills Requirement. RESTRICTION: Students may only take one transaction simulation course during their time at BU Law. GRADING NOTICE: This class will not offer the CR/NC/H option. ATTENDANCE REQUIREMENT: A student who fails to attend the first class or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the class. Students who are on the wait list are required to attend the first meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 776: Intellectual Property Workshop (S)
	This seminar will intensely examine a small number of topics from the frontier of intellectual property law ("IP").  I will invite several intellectual property scholars to present their works-in-progress. Students will be required to read the works in advance, and  will be assigned additional reading as appropriate.  The scholars will present their scholarly articles, and students will respond with questions, comments and critiques.  The seminar's goals are treble: for students to deepen their substantive knowledge of IP law, for students to increase their abilities to participate in, and potentially publish their own work in, scholarly debate, and for scholars in the midst of the publication process to improve their papers through the   input of the workshop group.  Students must have taken or be currently enrolled in a course in IP, Copyright, Patent, or Trademark.  Students who have not taken such a course (or who are not enrolled currently in such a course) must obtain the permission of the instructor.  Preference for entry will be given to JD students pursuing an "IP Concentration", students  pursuing an LLM in American Law degree with an IP concentration, and to LLM students pursuing a master's degree in IP.  The seminar is also open to other JD and LLM students, and to students outside the law school.  Overall enrollment is tentatively capped at 18; students beyond that number can be admitted with the permission of the instructor.  Students have the option of writing many short response papers, or of writing a single in-depth paper in IP.  The latter option can fulfill the JD Upper Class Writing Requirement. ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 18 students.  ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 780: Trademark and Unfair Competition
	This course will examine the precepts of trademark and unfair competition law.  We will investigate issues of ownership, protectability, misappropriation, and infringement in the context of words, symbols, slogans, product design and trade dress. The course also will handle related issues, depending on class interest, such as: trademark's common law roots, false and comparative advertising, parody, the right of publicity, the First Amendment, a comparison of how copyright and trademark treat 'functional' designs, and the question of whether trademarks are, or should be, "property."		

LAW JD 781: International Taxation I: Trade, Investment and Finance
	Tax aspects of international business transactions, both "inbound" and "outbound", with particular attention to fiscal jurisdiction, the foreign tax credit, allocation of income among affiliated companies, treaties, anti-abuse measures aimed at tax haven operations, information reporting and foreign investment in U.S. securities and real estate.  PREREQUISITE/COREQUISITE: INTRODUCTION TO FEDERAL INCOME TAXATION is a recommended prerequisite, but required at least as a corequisite. RESTRICTION: Students may not enroll in the International Tax seminar (JD918) and this course.  NOTE: This course (and the final exam) is administered through the Graduate Tax Program (Room 1670).  This section is for pre-registration purposes only.  Students will be transferred to the Tax section (TX906) of the course during the summer.		

LAW JD 783: Transaction Simulation: Int'l Business Collaboration
	This course is one of the "capstone" semester-long transaction simulations offered as part of the School's Transactional Law Program. The simulated transaction involves two companies, one a large U.S.-based pharmaceutical company, and the other an African company majority owned by the government. The two companies are interested in working together to produce and commercialize a plant-based product which may be effective in treating, and possibly even preventing, arthritis. The pharmaceutical company has developed and patented a process to extract the active ingredient from the plant which is available in ample supply from the African company. The form of their collaboration could be a joint venture, a licensing agreement or a long term supply contract.   For much of the course, the class will be divided into two teams, with each team representing one of the parties to the potential transaction.  Negotiations between the two teams will take place through written exchanges and real-time negotiation.  The course provides students with an opportunity to gain insight into the dynamics of negotiating and structuring business transactions, to learn about the role that lawyers, law and business play in these negotiations, and to develop experience in drafting communications and actual negotiations. Students will also learn about the legal and business issues that may arise in joint ventures, supply agreements and licensing agreements, particularly in an international transaction.  CLASS SIZE: Limited to 12 students (6 JD and 6 LLM). PREREQUISITES: Corporations and Contract Drafting (LLM students will take Transactional Contracts as a co-requisite in lieu of Contract Drafting). NOTES: This course does not satisfy the Upper-Class Writing Requirement. This course satisfies the Upper-Class Professional Skills Requirement. RESTRICTION: Students may only take one transaction simulation course during their time at BU Law. GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option. ATTENDANCE REQUIREMENT: A student who fails to attend the first class or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the class. Students who are on the wait list are required to attend the first meeting to be considered for enrollment. NOTES: This course satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills Requirement. Given the team approach of this course, it may not be taken on a CR/NC/H basis.  During their time at BU Law, students may take only one Transaction Simulation course offered as part of the Transactional Law Program. 		

LAW JD 784: Crossborder Litigation in Practice
	The course will expose students to the practical aspects of cross border litigation by examining in depth] the ongoing 20+ year legal conflict among Chevron, the State of Ecuador, the indigenous tribes of the Lago Agrio, and two leading American law firms over claims concerning the pollution of a 4,000 square kilometer area of Ecuador. Through the lens of this complex, multi-jurisdictional dispute, the class will examine the types of legal, business, strategic and political issues raised in such a high-profile, "bet the company" dispute, including the  Alien Tort Claims Act, the $9.5-billion judgment in Ecuador against Chevron, the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, the impact of bilateral investment treaties, and tactics employed in pursuit of and defense against the recognition and enforcement of a foreign judgment.  Readings will include the "Invictus Memo" by which Patton Boggs set out a settlement strategy for the plaintiffs and the ruling in the RICO litigation against the plaintiff's lawyers. By the end of the course, students will have an understanding the resources required and the challenges faced in pursuing multi-jurisdiction claims against a multinational corporation. 		

LAW JD 785: Federal Civil Practice (S)
	This seminar will focus on the specific application of the federal rules of civil procedure to pretrial civil practice.  Each pretrial phase of a case (from the complaint to the answer to motions to dismiss to discovery to summary judgment) will be unpacked with reference to the applicable civil rules.  The idea is to reach the same level of detail in analysis and close reading of the rules as that required of a new litigation associate.  This will involve considerations of computation of time, deadlines, pleading rules, Rule 12, Rule 16, Rule 26, the local rules of civil procedure, and the like.  The class will proceed with students drafting and discussing the various documents relevant to pretrial procedure.  From a prewritten factual scenario, students will draft complaints, answer their colleagues' complaints, move to dismiss their colleagues' complaints, draft discovery documents, move for summary judgment, etc.  Grades will be derived from classroom discussion and written product.  NOTES: This seminar does not satisfy the Upper-class Writing Requirement.  This seminar satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement.  GRADING NOTICE: This class does not offer the CR/NC/H option. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment. 		

LAW JD 786: American Legislative Practice: Clinic Option (C)
	NOTE:  Restricted to students who apply and are accepted into the program.   The American Legislative Practice Clinic is a one-semester clinical program (six graded credits), offered in the fall and spring.  The in-class seminar will cover subjects that affect the legislative process including: constitutional interpretation by legislatures, theories of representation, legislative organization and rules, lobbying, legislative oversight powers, and legislature-executive agency relationships. The clinic gives students the opportunity to develop and apply a variety of legal skills to the legislative process. Clinic participants work on several projects during the semester that highlight different aspects of the legislative process, allowing students to relate and test the theories discussed in class to real life situations.		

LAW JD 788: Contract Drafting
	This course is the foundational skills course within the Transactional Law Program.  It teaches students basic principles and skills of drafting and analyzing commercial and transaction agreements, with a focus on recognizing, and addressing through contractual provisions, key business issues in transactions.  Although the course will be of particular interest to students interested in a corporate or transactional law practice, since most practicing attorneys will need to work with contracts at some point in their career, the concepts and skills which the course conveys are applicable to virtually all practice areas and specialties.  While the course utilizes lectures to introduce various contract concepts and techniques essential for drafting and reviewing commercial and transaction agreements, it requires that students complete in-class exercises and extensive homework assignments as a means of building basic drafting skills and a solid understanding of the structure and operation of contractual provisions in a business transaction.  Grades will be based on the graded assignments, good faith completion of ungraded assignments, and class participation.  ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 12 students.  NOTE:  This class satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement. GRADING NOTICE:  This class will not offer the CR/NC/H option. ATTENDANCE REQUIREMENT: A student who fails to attend the first class or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the class. Students who are on the wait list for a section are required to attend the first meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 790: Employee Benefit Plans
	This course provides an overview of the major mandatory and non-mandatory employee benefits-deferred compensation, workers compensation, unemployment insurance, health insurance, the Fair Labor Standards Act, and Social Security. An in-depth examination of ERISA occupies approximately 8 weeks of the course. This is a growing and dynamic practice area. We will study qualified plans, plan design, Section 510 (benefits discrimination) cases, COBRA and claims for benefits cases. A three hour final examination is required.		

LAW JD 791: Intellectual Property and the Internet (S)
	This seminar will explore the ways in which the Internet has challenged both the theory and the law of intellectual property.  Rather than broadly surveying the landscape, we will closely examine a cluster of topics that have especially challenged courts, legislatures, and theorists.  Particular topics will be determined prior to the start of class, but might include:  copyright law's treatment of intermediaries (such as YouTube, file sharing services, and online service providers); the obligations of auction sites and other online services to police trademark infringement by their users; the scope of fair use protection for user-generated content; and patent protection for Internet-related technologies and business methods. Grades will be based on a combination of written exercises (required each week) and oral presentations (required once for each student).  Student participation is required, and will be taken into account in the grade for the course.  In lieu of the short papers, it is possible to write a paper that satisfies the Upper-class Writing Requirement. PREREQUISITE: All students must have completed a core Intellectual Property course (Intellectual Property, Patent Law, Copyright Law, or Trademark Law). GRADING NOTICE:  This class will not offer the CR/NC/H option. **A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment. 		

LAW JD 793: Trade Secrets and Restrictive Covenants
	This course will examine the theory, practice, and interrelationship of trade secret law and the law of restrictive covenants, including laws governing the use and enforceability of noncompetition agreements.  We will explore what a trade secret is, what it is not, how it differs from other types of intellectual property, and how something secret can constitute protectable property.  We will investigate how trade secrets can be misappropriated, including misappropriation through one's memory; whether and in what circumstances trade secrets will be protected, including through the use of noncompetition agreements, nondisclosure agreements, and other restrictive covenants; the other purposes served by those agreements; and the strengths and weaknesses of the various laws governing the protection of trade secrets and the use of restrictive covenants.  Depending on class interest and time, we may discuss related issues such as the current debate over the use of noncompete agreements and their putative effects on innovation.  NOTE: This course satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement.  GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option.  OFFERING PATTERN: This class is not offered every year.  Students are advised to take this into account when planning their long-term schedule.		

LAW JD 794: Bankruptcy Practice: Chapter 11 Reorganizations and Sales of Businesses (S)
	This seminar will examine Chapter 11 from the point of view of attorneys for all participants in the process.  It is designed to provide the student with knowledge of the uses of Chapter 11, the parties involved in a Chapter 11 proceeding, the substantive law governing Chapter 11 and the Plan of Reorganization process.  This seminar will explore the increasing use of Chapter 11 as a vehicle to accomplish the sale of insolvent businesses, the "cram down" of creditors to accomplish confirmation of Plans of Reorganization, executory contracts including those dealing with real estate, equipment and intellectual property and alternatives to Chapter 11.  Also to be considered are the impact of changes in judicial, legislative and societal attitudes on the restructuring process.  The material will consist of important cases and articles on the subjects to be discussed.  Grades will depend primarily on one (1) research paper which will be required of each student.  Grades will be adjusted to account for class participation.  NOTES:  This seminar does not satisfy the Upper-class Writing Requirement. This seminar satisfies the Professional Skills requirement. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 795: E-DISCOVERY LAW &amp; PRACTICE
	 The Electronic Discovery Reference Model, or EDRM, sets out the basic work steps required to move Electronically Stored Information, or ESI, from its original location on a client's computer systems, through Identification, Preservation, Collection, Processing, Review, Production, Analysis and Presentation in a legal setting.  Each step along the EDRM has both legal standards set out in statutory and case law, as well as best practices for how to implement those standards in practical work plans.  This course will address both the legal requirements and practical work required to move data from its natural habitat into a legal action.  In other words, we will address the law and practical steps required for civil ediscovery.  In addition to class lecture and discussion, this course will include in class exercises where the students will form work groups and apply ediscovery law to hypotheticals, and work together with technical tools, with the assistance of visiting ESI technical specialists.  Extra credit opportunities will also be available.  Topics will include: Creating and Implementing a Litigation Hold; Identification and Preservation of Electronically Stored Information; Jurisdiction and Venue law as applied to internet evidence sources; Discovery of Cloud Evidence under the Stored Communications Act; Technology Assisted Review (TAR); eDiscovery Depositions under FRCP/MRCP 30(b)(6); Discovery of ESI located abroad in Europe or Asia; Discovery of Databases.  NOTE:  This course satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement.  GRADING NOTICE: This class does not offer the CR/NC/H option.		

LAW JD 798: Administrative Rule Making in Health Law (S)
	In this class, you will directly participate in the administrative rule making process with a federal or state agency. Within the broad parameters of health law, you will select the agency, rule, and position you choose to advocate.  Your comment letters will be read by lobbyists and lawyers for the government agency, who are required to take your views into account.  Relevant agencies include CMS, HHS, FDA, USDA, FTC, VA and USTR.  We will also explore some of the theoretical foundations and alternatives to this process.  This class satisfies the upper-level writing requirement and the professional skills requirement.  Your writing will be the actual comments letters and supporting documents that you file with the agency. RECOMMENDED COURSES: Administrative Law or Health Law are recommended, but not required. ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 18 students. NOTE: This seminar satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement.  **A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 801: Administrative Law
	MONCRIEFF: This course will examine the nature and functions of federal administrative agencies and the legal controls on agency action. Topics include the status of administrative agencies in the constitutional framework of separation of powers; agency rulemaking and adjudication; and the availability, timing, and scope of judicial review of agency action.  BEERMANN/DIVER: This course will examine the nature and functions of federal administrative agencies and the legal controls on agency action. Agency action is situated and examined in its political and legal contexts.  Topics include the status of administrative agencies in the constitutional framework of separation of powers including the non-delegation doctrine, the President's appointment and removal powers in light of the unitary executive, the constitutionality of the legislative and line-item vetoes, the constitutionality of agency adjudication, and the constitutional (and political) status of independent agencies; agency rulemaking and adjudication including the choice of procedural model and the procedural requirements of the rulemaking model; and the availability, timing and scope of judicial review of agency action including standing to seek judicial review and exceptions to the availability of judicial review.  The course also examines different methods of policy analysis such as regulatory impact analysis and cost-benefit analysis.		

LAW JD 802: Food, Drug and Cosmetic Law (S)
	This seminar examines the Food and Drug Administration as an administrative agency combining law and science to regulate activities affecting public health and safety. Topics include testing and approval of pharmaceuticals and medical devices; food safety and nutritional policy; biologics and biotechnology regulation; cosmetic regulation; pricing of and reimbursement for drugs and devices; global aspects of pharmaceutical regulation, US and foreign patent issues, and FDA practice and procedure; jurisdiction and enforcement.  A writing project involving research on food and drug issues will be required.  RECOMMENDED COURSES: Intellectual Property, Administrative Law &amp; Health Law.    ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.   		

LAW JD 803: Bankruptcy &amp; Creditors' Rights
	This course focuses on corporate reorganization and corporate finance. We will study the legal requirements for reorganization plans under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, as well as the use of going concern sales outside of Chapter 11. We will study important doctrinal issues relating to reorganization of corporate groups, including substantive consolidation and equitable subordination. We will investigate avoidance actions in bankruptcy, including preferences and fraudulent conveyance, and the treatment of pre-bankruptcy contracts. Other topics include the financing of corporate debtors in bankruptcy and workouts and duties to creditors outside of bankruptcy. Finally, we will also introduce and ultimately master some basic tools of corporate finance--present value, expected value, and risk and diversification. GRADING NOTICE:  This class will not offer the CR/NC/H option. PREREQUISITES:  Corporations.		

LAW JD 805: Business Law: Secured Financing Transactions
	Many commercial financing transactions involve the creation of security interests in the borrower's personal property that are akin to mortgages of real property.  Much business credit is provided on a secured credit - if security is unavailable, credit markets can dry up.  Additionally, the debt obligation can be packaged with others and serve as the backing for securities akin to those that have recently been much in the news.  This course governs the basic secured transaction governed by Article 9 of the U.C.C.  Topics covered will include creation and perfection of security interests, priority contests, and the consequences of default.  There are no PREREQUISITES for this course.  Students who desire a thorough exposure to the Uniform Commercial Code may wish to take the course Business Law: The Uniform Commercial Code instead.  RESTRICTION: Enrollment is limited to students who have not taken or enrolled in Business Law: The Uniform Commercial Code.		

LAW JD 806: Prosecutorial Ethics (S)
	United States Attorney (and later Supreme Court Justice) Robert Jackson noted in a speech that a "prosecutor has more control over life, liberty, and reputation than any other person in America."  This seminar will analyze the unique role, power, and responsibilities of the prosecutor in the United States criminal justice system.  How does a prosecutor balance her duty to "seek justice" and her role as a "minister of justice" within an adversarial system?  Does public pressure (perceived or real) to obtain convictions and solve crimes have an impact on prosecutors' actions?   Throughout this course, we will examine the Model Rules of Professional Conduct, the Model Code of Professional Responsibility, and the Standards of Criminal Justice as they apply to criminal attorneys in general and prosecutors in particular.  How do the rules and case law demonstrate that a criminal prosecutor is different from a criminal defense attorney or civil attorney?  We will study the ethical implications and constraints placed on prosecutors, as well as the unique power that they hold at various stages of a criminal case.  We will examine the means by which a prosecutor exercises discretion from the investigation of alleged crimes to the decision to charge (or not charge), and through the conduct of trials, as well as post-trial obligations.  We will address such topics as: What is the prosecutor's obligation to the police and/or alleged victims of crimes?  What duty does a prosecutor owe to a criminal defendant?  What restrictions are placed on a prosecutor at trial that do not exist for defense attorneys?  We will also study some specific contemporary and historical cases that have raised questions about the ethical conduct of prosecutors, including (but not limited to) the so-called Duke Lacrosse case, the Dominque Strauss-Kahn matter, and the prosecution of United States Senator Ted Stevens and the subsequent findings of prosecutorial misconduct therein.   NOTE:  This seminar satisfies the Professional Responsibility requirement.  While there are no required prerequisites for taking this course, students should be prepared that some basic principles of Criminal Procedure, Evidence, and Trial Advocacy will necessarily be a focus of some of our discussions. ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 18 students. GRADING NOTICE: This seminar is NOT offered as CR/NC/H. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 810: Constitutional Law
	Considers selected issues concerning judicial review, federalism, separation of powers, and individual rights.		

LAW JD 813: Contracts
	Legal and equitable remedies for enforcing contracts, determining what promises are enforceable, elements of assent, standards of fairness and restrictions on bargaining processes, and tests for performance and breach		

LAW JD 814: Family Law
	This course offers a survey of family law, including case law, statutory law, and the constitutional limitations on regulation of the family. An aim of the course is to introduce students to family law as a dynamic field of law concerning a basic social institution: the family. Family law is a foundational course relevant to many areas of law practice. Students will gain knowledge about how family law intersects with many other fields of law, such as contracts, constitutional law, conflicts of laws, criminal law, property, tax, torts, and trusts and estates, as well as how family law draws on the social sciences. Students will be introduced to the role of negotiation, mediation, and other forms of dispute resolution in the practice of family law.  The course will focus on marriage, nonmarital families, divorce, pathways to becoming a parent, and the parent-child relationship. Topics include defining and regulating marriage; formal and informal marriage; cohabitation and alternatives to marriage (such as domestic partnerships);  common law incidents of marriage and transformation of the common law; domestic violence; traditional and "no fault" divorce; property division; spousal support; child support; child custody; regulating parenthood; and issues of federal and state jurisdiction over and recognition of marriage. There will be a final examination. There is also a course requirement of an in-class, pass/fail skills exercise. NOTES: (1) Students enrolled in this class have the option of taking a one-credit Writing Supplement focused on drafting. (2) In the 2014-2015 academic year, Family Law will only be offered in the Fall semester.		

LAW JD 816: Corporations
	 Course about the legal structure and characteristics of business corporations.  Topics include the promotion and formation of corporations; the distribution of power between management and shareholders; the limitations on management powers imposed by state law fiduciary duties and federal securities laws; shareholder derivative suits; capital structure and financing of corporations; and fundamental changes in corporate structure, such as mergers and sales of assets.  The course serves as a PREREQUISITE to advanced courses. GRADING NOTICE:  Professor Walker's section of this class will not offer the CR/NC/H option.		

LAW JD 817: Advanced Human Trafficking
	In the Advanced Human Trafficking Seminar, students will examine the complexities of multidisciplinary legal practice in the human trafficking context. These topics will be explored through the use of case rounds and the discussion of issues arising in cases handled by the student attorneys. Topics will include the ethics of engaging with other professionals (e.g., social workers, medical professionals, etc.) as well as how to approach legal issues with a multi-disciplinary lens. For example, in the human trafficking context, courts have adopted diversion programs and "John" schools to alleviate the harsh implications of the criminal justice system while providing more effective protection to human trafficking survivors. Students will examine these approaches and the limitations of various models.  Requirements include active class participation, journals, and a final paper.		

LAW JD 818: Advanced Human Trafficking (C)
	Students will continue to represent human trafficking survivors in a variety of contexts. They will be expected to contribute ten hours per week to represent human trafficking survivors. The clinical work will be based at the Family Justice Center, which provides space to agencies providing social, legal and other services to human trafficking survivors. 		

LAW JD 819: Criminal Procedure: Comprehensive
	This course examines basic issues in criminal procedure that cut across the investigative and adjudicative stages.  We will consider how the Constitution shapes the criminal justice system in the courtroom in areas such as the concepts of the presumption of innocence and proof beyond a reasonable doubt, the right to counsel, grand jury requests for the production of evidence, plea bargaining and the application of the Exclusionary Rule seeking to suppress evidence the police obtained in violation of the Constitution.  We will also study the limits the Constitution places on the power of the police in the areas of interrogation, searches, seizures of property and stop and arrest, paying particular attention to the issue of racial profiling. RESTRICTION: Students may not enroll in this section and Criminal Procedure (JD821).  Students who previously enrolled in Criminal Procedure: Adjudicatory (JD820) are also restricted from registering. GRADING NOTICE:  This class will not offer the CR/NC/H option.		

LAW JD 820: Criminal Procedure: Adjudicatory
	This course focuses on the constitutional rules of the criminal process from arrest to sentencing and appeal ("bail to jail"), particularly under the Fifth, Sixth, and Eighth Amendments.  Topics include the right to counsel, effective assistance of counsel, pretrial release and detention, charging, grand jury, prosecutorial discretion, discovery, double jeopardy, plea bargaining, juvenile vs. adult court, jury vs. bench trial, jury selection, speedy trial, confrontation, jury instructions, proof beyond a reasonable doubt, sentencing, and appeals.  RESTRICTIONS: Enrollment is limited to students who have not taken and are not currently enrolled in Rossman's Criminal Procedure (JD 819). Students who have taken or who are enrolled in Maclin's Criminal Procedure (JD 821) are permitted to take this course. OFFERING PATTERN: This class is not offered every year.  Students are advised to take this into account when planning their long-term schedule.		

LAW JD 821: Criminal Procedure
	This course covers search and seizure, the privilege against self-incrimination, confessions and the rights to counsel during custodial police interrogation. In general the course will examine the constitutional law in cases arising out of the conflict between police practices and the Bill of Rights.  RESTRICTION: Students may not enroll in this section and Criminal Procedure (JD819).		

LAW JD 822: Privacy (S)
	Modern information technology and new information-intensive businesses and social practices have moved privacy concerns into the spotlight.  And though privacy law has existed as a legal practice area for a generation or more, laws and practice in the area are increasingly complex and evolving rapidly. This course examines law and policy issues concerning personal information and privacy. Law enforcement, national security, and other public law topics will be considered, but the main focus will be civil law and the use of personally identifying information by businesses. We will consider privacy-related statutes and regulations; a variety of recent controversies drawing from Constitutional law, contract, and tort law; established privacy regimes in the EU and elsewhere; and emerging laws that have implications for the use and protection of personal information globally. LIMITED WRITING REQUIREMENT OPTION:  A limited number of students may be permitted to satisfy the upper-class writing requirement with the approval of the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs.  GRADING NOTICE:  This seminar does not offer the CR/NC/H option. **A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment. 		

LAW JD 824: Juvenile Delinquency (S)
	The American juvenile justice system was established over one hundred years ago to address the problem of young offenders.  This course examines the historical, social and legal foundations for our current system.  We will examine the issue of "rights" as applied to children and  look at the effects of ideology and politics on the current juvenile justice system.  How have assumptions of childhood and responsibility changed?  Has the juvenile court been "criminalized" with the introduction of due process rights for children?  Under what circumstances are children treated as adult offenders?  Selected issues for inquiry include: police interrogation of juveniles; school safety and zero tolerance policies; adjudicative competency; anti-youth crime policies; conditions of incarceration; and changes brought about by elimination of mandatory juvenile life without parole.  We will examine these issues through use of court cases, law review articles, governmental and private organizational position papers,  and legislative history.  Using the Massachusetts model, one of the early and often emulated juvenile systems, we will examine the changes in the prosecution and incarceration of juveniles over the past century.  As we consider the overarching issue of whether it makes sense to maintain a separate justice system for juveniles, we will compare our system to those of other nations.  We will visit the Boston Juvenile Court to observe a delinquency session and speak with court personnel.  Students are expected to attend each class prepared to discuss the assigned readings.  Course requirements include a 15-20 page final paper, a class presentation based on the paper topic or related class readings, and several assigned reading response papers over the course of the semester. A limited number of students will be permitted to fulfill the upper-class writing certification requirement.  This is a graded course. NOTE:  This seminar satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement. ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 18 students. GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option.  **A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 826: Mediation: Theory &amp; Practice (S)
	Mediation is part of the legal landscape in almost every substantive area and legal setting.  This course will cover the theory and practice of mediation, the use of mediation to resolve disputes in various different legal contexts, and the development of practical mediation skills.  We will examine the mediation process from the role of the mediator through the attorney representing a party in mediation.  We will also address direct negotiation, the decision to mediate, mediator selection, preparation for mediation, and ethical issues involved in negotiation.  The course will provide skill building through several interactive role-plays, in which students will have opportunities to act as a mediator, a party in mediation, and counsel to a party in mediation.  The role play mediations and other exercises will survey many of the areas in which mediation is being used, including business and commercial; court-connected, federal-state agency (environmental and others); construction, employment/workplace; family/ divorce; school, community, and international.  Due to the interactive nature of the class, students will be expected to attend all scheduled classes and to participate actively.  Active participation includes in-class discussions, mediation role-plays, assigned reading, and writing a weekly mediator's journal.  NOTES: This seminar does not satisfy the Upper-class Writing Requirement.  This seminar satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement.  ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who waitlist for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.   		

LAW JD 827: Restorative Justice: Principles and Practices
	The course explores the needs of key stakeholders in a justice system (victims, offenders, communities, government officials), outlines the basic principles and values of restorative justice with comparisons to the principles and values of retributive justice, and introduces some of the primary models of practice.  It also identifies challenges to restorative justice.  These discussions will takes place in the context of secular and religious understandings of justice.  The course is organized around the issue of crime and harm within a western legal context.  However, attention is given to applications and lessons from other contexts.  Of particular interest is the contribution of traditional or indigenous approaches to justice as well as applications in post-conflict situations, such as South Africa.  The class will include presentations by the instructor, class discussion of the assigned reading, conversations with victims, offenders and community members, and role plays of different practices.  The class will include students from both the Law School and the School of Theology. Students will be graded on the basis of their written work and classroom performance.  There will be no final exam.		

LAW JD 828: Wrongful Convictions Clinic (C)
	Participants will engage in screening applications from prisoners claiming innocence who have requested help from the New England Innocence Project.  This may involve reading prisoner questionnaires, pleadings and court opinions in the case, legal research and analysis of the requirements for obtaining a new trial, review of attorney files, and search for forensic evidence in the case. Clinic students must attend biweekly meetings as determined necessary by Mr. Cormier, and spend at least five hours a week on Clinic tasks, under supervision, for the full academic year.  If investigation of the prisoner's case finishes at the end of the Fall Semester, or part-way through the Spring Semester, the Clinic work will end at that time.  Most often, however, Clinic obligations continue throughout the academic year. Students will receive one pass/fail credit for each full semester of work.  If, however, work on the prisoner's case is not finished by December, credit for the Fall will be deferred until the work is completed.  Hours spent on Clinic work in the Spring semester that do not receive credit may be counted toward satisfaction of the School's Pro Bono Pledge. Participants will be expected to attend an evening orientation program, conducted in late September at the New England Innocence Project. Interested students may obtain an application online at http://www.bu.edu/law/central/jd/programs/clinics/applying/ and submit it to Mr. Cormier at pc@gscboston.com.  The application deadline is May 15, 2014. NOTES: This Clinic satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement.  Enrolling in this Clinic will not disadvantage participants who wish to enroll in other law school clinics, either contemporaneously or subsequently.		

LAW JD 830: Federal Habeas Corpus (S)
	This seminar explores federal court jurisdiction to entertain petitions for the writ of habeas corpus. Some attention will be given to habeas corpus as a means of challenging actions taken by the Federal Government in connection with national security and immigration.  More attention will be given to habeas as the means by which state and federal prisoners attack criminal convictions and death sentences. The seminar should be of interest to students interested in the institutional role of federal courts in the United States, the relationship between federal courts and state courts, and the procedural mechanisms for adjudicating federal constitutional issues in criminal cases.  Students who plan to practice criminal law, to handle capital litigation, or to clerk for federal judges will find the seminar especially valuable.  ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.   		

LAW JD 831: Evidence
	Practical and theoretical aspects of the rules of evidence.  The purpose and policies underlying the evidentiary rules are stressed throughout in order to make the rules meaningful, predictable, and functional both for students interested in trial practice and for students who anticipate engaging in a more diversified practice.  In addition to covering the substantive rules of evidence, the course demonstrates the significance of evidence as a tactical device at the trial and as a vital skill for the office lawyer. GRADING NOTICE:  Judge Lowy's section will not offer the CR/NC/H option.		

LAW JD 833: Environmental Law
	This is an introductory survey class in environmental law. Topics include the control of air and water pollution, toxic substances and hazardous waste, global climate change,  brownfields development, the intersection between energy law and policy and environmental law, protection of endangered species, and  judicial review of federal and state administrative actions. We will also study one or more current examples of environmental law in action to illustrate the differing interests of various stakeholders in environmental law disputes. Administrative Law is recommended but not required as a prerequisite. GRADING NOTICE: This class does not offer the CR/NC/H option		

LAW JD 834: Employment Discrimination and Employment Law
	The course focuses on race, sex, age, and disability employment discrimination prohibitions. Affirmative action, religious discrimination, constitutional protections of public sector workers, anti-retaliation and whistleblower laws, and common law protection against arbitrary dismissals are also covered. Important procedural issues, including arbitration, are highlighted.		

LAW JD 836: Federal Courts
	A basic survey course, covering the federal courts and their conduct of litigation concerning business regulation, environmental protection, and civil rights.  This course picks up where the first-year course in Civil Procedure leaves off and complements other courses on modern regulation and legal institutions: e.g., Administrative Law, Environmental Law, Labor Law, Conflict of Laws, and Constitutional Law.  Topics include the prerequisites for gaining access to the federal district courts and the United States Supreme Court, the relationship between the federal courts and state courts, and "abstention" doctrines governing the exercise of federal judicial power.  Especially recommended for students who plan to practice with firms that represent clients subject to federal regulation, to pursue careers with federal or state agencies and departments, or to handle constitutional, civil rights, or other public interest litigation.		

LAW JD 838: Antitrust Law
	Antitrust law regulates the competition between business firms in unregulated markets (and in varying degrees in regulated markets, where it supplies a benchmark standard).  Thus, all privately owned economic entities are subject to or affected by the antitrust laws (federal or state), ranging from the largest multinationals to self-employed individuals, e.g., lawyers.  Antitrust law constrains business behavior that injures the competitive process, encompassing such topics as price fixing, boycotts, monopolization, mergers, price discrimination, distributorship limitations and similar trade restrictions.  Antitrust analysis is increasingly economic in its orientation and therefore economic analysis will form a vital part of the course.  Supplementary economic readings are suggested for students without previous economic background (and for others who may wish to refresh their knowledge).  GRADING NOTICE:  This class will not offer the CR/NC/H option.		

LAW JD 839: First Amendment
	This course will begin with an examination of freedom of expression and freedom of the press and will then move to a study of freedom of religion -- the establishment clause and the free exercise clause. We shall cover issues such as the protection of political speech, sexualized speech (obscenity and pornography), symbolic speech and speech in public places in addition to issues related to press censorship, reporters' privilege and press coverage of trials. We shall pay particular attention to the WikiLeaks case and examine the role of leaks, reporters' privilege and the internet in the 21 century. In the area of freedom of religion we shall review the evolving jurisprudence on the role of religion in the public sphere as well as the constitutional command to guarantee free exercise of religion.  While studying the doctrines developed under the Bill of Rights, we shall also address theoretical questions such as the justifications for freedom of expression, the role of religion in American culture, the role of rights in constitutional democracy and the institutional question of judicial review. GRADING NOTICE: This class does not offer the CR/NC/H option.		

LAW JD 841: Sup Res&amp;Writing
			

LAW JD 842: International Business Transactions
	This course is intended to introduce students to the many legal issues generated by international business transactions and related international trade.  With the significant growth in international commerce and trade, and the powerful forces of economic and social globalization, there is an increasing likelihood that lawyers will confront international commercial legal issues more frequently during their professional careers.  The aim in this course is to generate vigorous learning and discussion of the many legal and related commercial and prudential issues that arise in international business transactions. Upon successful completion of this course, students will have a better understanding of the primary role of the lawyer in international transactional practice, acting as a practical, ethical and prudential legal advisor, while working to maximize value and reduce risk for the client in conditions of inherent risk and uncertainty.  Topics include formation of contracts, choice of law, financing the international sale of goods through letters of credit, regulation of international trade including export and import controls, the organizations and operations of the institutions of the World Trade Organization, licensing of intellectual property; international antitrust; foreign investment, investment in free trade areas such as the European Union, international dispute settlement, and international transfer of intellectual property. A number of sessions will be devoted to analyzing transactional instruments, such as letters of credit, distribution agreements, technology licenses, and joint venture agreements.		

LAW JD 844: Charity &amp; Charitable Organizations (S)
	 This seminar will focus on the unique legal status of charitable organizations.  Particular attention will be given to the expansion of charitable institutions from relief of poor people to different types of non-profit entities (including universities, hospitals, and religious organizations).  We will examine their organization, governance, and regulation by both the federal government and the states.  Specific topics will include the permissible scope of non-profit activities; choice of organizational form; the powers and fiduciary duties of non-profit directors/trustees and officers; standing to sue non-profits; qualification for federal tax-exempt status and related tax issues; forms of charitable giving and the regulation of fundraising; the investment and use of charitable funds; and other issues unique to non-profits.  All students will be required to write papers on topics approved by the instructor. Some students, with the permission of the instructor, may satisfy the Upper-class Writing Requirement through this seminar by writing a longer paper. ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 18 students. GRADING NOTICE:  This class will not offer the CR/NC/H option. OFFERING PATTERN: This class not offered every year.  Students are advised to take this into account when planning their long-term schedule. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.  		

LAW JD 846: Historical Perspectives on Law, Constitutions and Culture (S)
	This workshop-format seminar examines the interplay of law, constitutions, and culture from an historical perspective.  The heart of the seminar is student engagement with works-in-progress by leading scholars in the history, theory, and culture of law, broadly understood.  The first three class sessions will be devoted to developing the intellectual tools necessary for reading and engaging with such papers.  Starting in week 4 of the semester, the class format will alternate between workshop sessions and more traditional seminar sessions.  During the five workshop sessions, an invited scholar will present a current scholarly work-in-progress for discussion.  Students will read the speaker's paper in advance and prepare discussion questions for the seminar.  During the other sessions, the class will meet as a normal seminar, during which we will discuss readings related to the workshop papers and legal history more generally.  The written work for the seminar will consist of a series of brief, critical essays in response to a student-selected subset of the workshop papers. NOTE:  This course is open to law students and to graduate students from other departments.  A background in history is not a prerequisite.  Graduate students from outside the law school may be able to receive 4 credits for this course. Please consult the professor regarding this option. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 847: Federal Courts
	This course focuses on the statutory, constitutional, and judge-made doctrines that shape and restrict the powers of federal courts.  In particular, it examines the relationships between the federal courts and the other branches of the federal government, as well as the relationship between the federal and state courts.  Selected topics include standing and justiciability, congressional control of the federal courts' powers (such as the extent to which "enemy combatants" may be excluded from federal court), federal question jurisdiction, and state sovereign immunity from suit in federal and state courts.  This course builds extensively on topics covered in Constitutional Law and Civil Procedure.  It is strongly recommended for students who plan on clerking (especially for a federal judge) or who expect to represent clients in federal court or in civil actions against government actors.		

LAW JD 850: Insurance Law
	 The presence or absence of insurance is in many instances the single most important determinant of whether and how a tort or contracts action is litigated. This course focuses on both individual and commercial forms of insurance coverage. Students are introduced to the key insurance concepts of risk management, including the transfer, pooling and allocation of covered risks. Problems of contract interpretation, imperfect information, adverse selection and discrimination will be treated at length. Additionally, the class will take up issues particular to property, life, health, disability, liability and auto insurance. Finally, some time will be devoted to the state regulatory regimes designed to ensure solvency and profitability, and to the secondary market (i.e. reinsurance, and surplus and excess lines). A final exam is required.		

LAW JD 852: Mutual Funds (Investment Companies)
	Investment companies have become an important part of the financial system. This course is designed to familiarize students with the special laws governing investment companies: their creation, structure, corporate governance, operations (including the distribution of shares and the management of the portfolios), dissolution and, time permitting, taxation. In particular, the course will focus on the Investment Company Act of 1940 and on the practice in this area before the Securities and Exchange Commission.		

LAW JD 854: White Collar Crime
	The past several years have witnessed an explosion in white collar criminal prosecutions: Arthur Andersen, Martha Stewart, Bernard Madoff and Jeffrey Skilling (Enron) to name a few.  The purpose of this Course is to teach present-day "white collar crime" practice, including the elements of principal federal statutes and the special procedures followed by prosecutors.  The course will review the theoretical bases of modern "white collar crime" prosecution, the major statutes in a prosecutor's "tool-box" (mail and wire fraud, securities fraud, bribery and extortion, obstruction of justice, RICO, and perjury) and procedural aspects of white collar crime (such as, grand jury process and sentencing).  Students will learn significant and interesting recent cases and the prosecutorial and defensive techniques employed in white collar crime cases.  Upon successful completion of the course, students will be familiar with the statutes, procedures, and methods of issue analysis employed by prosecutors and private lawyers in "white collar crime" practice.  OFFERING PATTERN: This class not offered every year.  Students are advised to take this into account when planning their long-term schedule.		

LAW JD 855: Land Use
	This course covers a wide range of laws, regulations, and policy considerations that influence and govern the development of land.  Classes will focus on real-world projects, including adaptive re-use of a historic building and construction of a high-rise tower, to explore the complex legal work that underpins modern real estate projects.  Readings will include a mix of project-specific legal documents and casebook readings.  Specific topics will include historic preservation, zoning and permitting, title and due diligence, eminent domain, real estate finance, easements and licenses, and environmental and "green building" issues.  Readings and discussion will build on core property law concepts but there are no pre-requisites for this course.		

LAW JD 857: Intellectual Property
	This course explores how the law deals with the products of creative activity.  The range of subject matter is large, embracing things as different as mechanical inventions and melodies; baubles and boat designs; catalogues, computers and cartoons.  Among the areas of potential coverage are federal copyright law, federal trademark law, state law theories of unfair competition, trade secret law, patent law, state rights of publicity, and misappropriation.  Also considered will be whether federal law should preempt the efforts of state judges and legislatures to regulate intellectual products.		

LAW JD 861: Civil Litigation Program (C)
	The Civil Litigation Program gives students the opportunity to use their lawyering skills in all courtroom levels - from local trial and housing courts, to the state's Supreme Judicial Court, to the federal court. In fact, several landmark decisions by the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court began as student-represented cases in the Civil Litigation Program.   Students in the Civil Litigation Clinic choose from three options:  *Housing, Employment, Family and Disability Clinic (HEFD) (full-year program) - The average HEFD clinic caseload over two semesters typically includes 4-5 cases in areas such as domestic relations, eviction defense, employment law and Social Security appeals.  Other kinds of cases may also be assigned.   *Immigration Rights Clinic (IRC) (full-year program) - The average IRC clinic caseload over two semesters typically includes two asylum or humanitarian/refugee related cases, and a significant research project.  *Employment Rights Clinic (ERC) (one semester program, fall or spring) - Students will represent clients in unemployment compensation cases, and a possibility of working on wage and hour disputes, discrimination/sexual harassment cases, and Family Medical Leave Act cases.   PREREQUISITE/COREQUISITE (HEFD &amp; IRC OPTIONS):  If you have not already done so, you must take Evidence during the first semester to satisfy the student practice rule. If you have already taken Trial Advocacy, you will still need to take the clinical section. It is closely integrated with your field work. PREREQUISITE/COREQUISITE (ERC OPTION): Spring ERC students must take Evidence and Professional Responsibility concurrently with the Employment Rights Clinic, or students must have already taken these courses.  Fall ERC students must take Evidence concurrently, or have already taken this course. NOTE: This clinic satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement.  		

LAW JD 862: Client Counseling (S)
	The purpose of this seminar is to provide students with the opportunity to develop client counseling skills needed to deal with a wide variety of clients and their various problems.  The focus of the seminar is on the way in which students are able to guide, listen, and counsel a client rather than on the correctness of the legal analysis.  This seminar is designed for students to learn by engaging in mock client counseling interviews.  Accordingly, much of the time will be filled with practice interviews and discussion of strategies for how to navigate client interviews and meetings.  This class is designed for the "real world" and will also prepare students for the ABA client counseling competition.  ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 18 students. GRADING NOTICE:  All students will be graded CR/NC/H. NOTES:  This seminar does not satisfy the Upper-class Writing Requirement. This seminar satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement.  ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 864: Government Regulation of Financial Services
	This course will compare the legal and regulatory frameworks for the four major types of financial institutions in the United States: banks, broker-dealers, investment companies and insurance companies.  The course will identify the essential economic activities of each type of financial institution and, in so doing, provide the context within which students can understand the fundamental purposes that underlie the legal rules that govern in each area.  This study will draw comparisons and contrasts among the different regulatory approaches that apply.  The course will explore the different forms of regulation that govern financial institutions, including disclosure rules, prohibitions or restrictions aimed at potential conflicts of interest, limitations on activities, capital requirements, limits on risk taking, price regulation and corporate governance requirements.  Attendance at the Graduate Program in Banking and Financial Law's two-day program, "Financial Services Basics," is highly recommended. Contact their office to confirm dates and to register.		

LAW JD 867: Health Law
	This course focuses on the organization, financing, and provision of medical care, including a number of provisions of the Affordable Care Act. Topics and themes include the economics of health insurance and managed care, regulatory responses to the market's perceived failures, medical tort law, access to care, consumer choice and patient autonomy, defining and assessing quality, and health care providers' conflicts of interest. 		

LAW JD 868: Moot Court
	The second component of the First Year Research and Writing requirement is participation in the J. Newton Esdaile Appellate Moot Court Program in the spring semester. Students conduct research, draft a brief and present a case in oral argument before a panel of moot-court judges made up of faculty, lawyers and students.   		

LAW JD 870: Patent Law
	The basic questions in patent law are:  why should society permit the grant of an exclusive property right in information relating to an invention? Who should be given the right? What is the scope of the right? How should the right be enforced? What disclosure duties should be placed on the patent holder? We will concentrate on these legal issues without getting mired in discussions of the technical details of particular inventions. Students without a technical background are welcome and encouraged to enroll.   		

LAW JD 871: Trusts, Wills &amp; Basic Estate Planning
	Examination of the rules governing intestate and testate distribution of property including formal requirements governing execution, alteration and revocation of wills; requisite elements of express trusts and requirements for their creation; resulting trusts and constructive trusts; special rules relating to charitable trusts and spendthrift trusts; rules concerning construction of wills and trusts; and general rules governing administration of decedents' estates and trusts. Short drafting assignments will be distributed throughout the semester.  A special one-credit drafting supplement may be arranged for a small number of students to work with an adjunct instructor on longer drafting projects. 		

LAW JD 872: Financial Reporting for Lawyers
	Understanding financial statements and reports.  The objective of the course is that students will be able to read and understand the four financial statements and the 10-k annual report.  Emphasis is placed on understanding the nature and meaning of the reports, as well as the relationship to the underlying transactions.  Other topics include: basic accounting principles, US GAAP versus IFRS, financial statement analysis, the relationship of the financial statement information to covenant documents, and accounting gamesmanship.  RESTRICTION:  Not open to students who have had more than one three-hour college course, or its equivalent, in accounting.		

LAW JD 873: Civil Procedure
	Examines the structure and function of civil procedure and the requirements of due process of law.		

LAW JD 874: Advanced Legal Writing and Editing Workshop (S)
	The purpose of this seminar is to provide students with the opportunity to improve their writing, editing and communication skills.  Students will prepare a variety of practice related documents based on a single fact pattern.  Some legal research will be necessary, but the emphasis will be on writing, not on research.  Students will also have the opportunity to edit other students' papers, with the goal of improving their own writing skills. Actors will perform a scenario for the class, from which students will extract the pertinent facts.  From this fact pattern, students will draft an inter-office memo, a letter or memo to a non-lawyer client, and a trial or appellate brief. Students will also engage in simulated client interviewing and counseling sessions, as well as a simulated meeting with a supervisor. Students will be graded on the basis of their written work, editing work on their classmate's papers and on their classroom performance.  There will be no final exam.  NOTES: This seminar does not satisfy the Upper-class Writing Requirement.  This seminar satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills Requirement. GRADING NOTICE:  This class will not offer the CR/NC/H option. ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 16 students. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 875: Human Rights Lawyering (S)
	This seminar is designed to introduce students to the range of human rights advocacy, grounded in the history of human rights movements, the development of international human rights norms, and contemporary case studies. The seminar will also look at the role critical theory has played and continues to play in shaping the development of human rights. In addition to examining the law and theory that underlies human rights movements, students will engage in human rights research and simulations.  The course work and final paper/project will require students to conduct research, develop strategic advocacy plans, and draft documents aimed at advancing particular human rights issues.  There are no prerequisites, though an introductory course in international law would be beneficial. Class participation is mandatory.  In lieu of mid-term or final examination, students will complete a final project / paper of their selection. An introductory class in International Human Rights is highly recommended, though not required. LIMITED WRITING REQUIREMENT OPTION: A limited number of students may be permitted to satisfy the upper-class writing requirement.  GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option.    ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 876: Property
	Conceptual analysis and underlying policy considerations in basic property law.		

LAW JD 877: Civil Rights Litigation
	This course is about the enforcement of constitutional rights and other federal rights against government officials.  The primary focus is on civil rights litigation in federal courts against state officials under the civil rights statutes passed in the wake of the civil war, including 42 U.S.C. §§ 1983, 1981, 1982 and 1985.  Under these statutes will look at which rights give rise to civil rights action and, to a much smaller extent, the scope of those rights.  The kinds of cases include police brutality, unlawful searches and seizures and discrimination in government jobs.  The issues that arise include many statutory questions, such as identification of proper parties to 1983 actions, and judge-make defenses, such as official and state immunities from damages actions and injunctive suits.  We will also look at federalism and eleventh amendment limitations on congressional power and federal court remedial power in 1983 actions, although coverage of these issues will not be as thorough as in Federal Courts.  The standards for holding local governments liable for damages will also be examined.  Our major foray into the substance of constitutional rights will be with regard to the role of state remedies and defendant's state of mind for fourteenth amendment procedural due process violations.  We will also look at substantive constitutional rights such as police brutality, medical care for prisoners and detainees, high speed police chases and other similar areas.  There will also be some coverage of remedies against federal officials directly under the constitution and remedies against private individuals for civil rights violations. OFFERING PATTERN: This class is not offered every year.  Students are advised to take this into account when planning their long-term schedule.		

LAW JD 878: THE COLOR LINE (S)
	This seminar traces the role of race and ethnicity in American law and social practice from the early colonial period to the present, including resistance to racial subordination and movements for reform.  While the seminar will mainly focus on the experiences of Native Americans, African Americans, Latino Americans, and Asian Americans, we will also consider the reception of Catholic and Jewish immigrants, America's overseas empire, and the legacy of white supremacy.  Readings will include Ronald Takaki, A Different Mirror (revised edn., 2008) and a course pack.  Seminar members will take turns initiating discussion of the readings. A term paper will be required on an approved topic.  A complete and polished draft of the paper will be revised in light of comments received.  (An expanded term paper, completed after the semester, can be the basis for satisfying the upper-class writing requirement.) ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 18 students.  ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 879: Advanced Legal Research
	In this class students will be exposed to how legal research functions in practice.  The class will be structured like a legal workplace with students in the role of new attorneys completing research projects for senior attorneys.  The research projects will be designed to highlight major legal research tools in both online and print formats.  The projects will feature tasks like locating court documents, doing a legislative history, finding agency regulations and guidance, doing state specific research with practice series, researching an unfamiliar area of the law using secondary sources, as well as learning to use Lexis/Nexis, Westlaw and Bloomberg Law in a cost effective manner.  The projects will require different output depending on the nature of the assignment from a short e-mail with the name of a case to a one-page memo highlighting recent developments in an area of law.  The objective of the class is for students to become comfortable completing simple and complex research in a work setting.  There will be several research projects throughout the semester and at least one oral exam.  NOTE:  This course does not satisfy the Upper-class Writing Requirement. This course satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement.   This course meets January 22 through April 9.		

LAW JD 881: Alternative Dispute Resolution
	The goal of this course is to improve your ability to resolve disputes and to productively engage in conflict. In this highly interactive class, students will examine a variety of dispute resolution processes, other than traditional court adjudication, including negotiation, mediation, arbitration, and to a lesser extent, collaborative law, dispute resolution system design and restorative justice. Over the course of the semester, students will engage in a series of exercises (i.e., role-plays) through which they can develop and hone their skills and approaches to dispute resolution. Discussion and short lectures will accompany the exercises, as appropriate. There will be short written assignments (1-2 pages) in which students reflect upon and analyze their performance in the exercises, as well as a longer paper due at the end of the semester. No final exam.  ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 18 students.  NOTE:  This course satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement. GRADING NOTICE:  This class will not offer the CR/NC/H option. RESTRICTION: Students may not enroll in Alternative Dispute Resolution and Negotiation (JD921).		

LAW JD 883: Securities Regulation
	This course offers an introduction to federal securities regulation under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Using case studies involving familiar companies such Google and Facebook, we will examine how federal securities regulation shapes the process by which companies raise capital, whether in a venture capital transaction, an IPO or a public offering by a Fortune 500 company. We will also focus on the mandatory disclosure regime for publicly traded companies, the related topics of securities fraud and insider trading, and core concepts such as the definition of a security and materiality. PREREQUISITE/COREQUISITE: Corporations is suggested but not required. GRADING NOTICE: This course is NOT offered as CR/NC/H.		

LAW JD 884: Research and Writing Seminar
	Small-group instruction in legal research and writing, with emphasis on developing legal research techniques, writing abilities, and legal problem-solving abilities.  (Required First Year, fall semester.)		

LAW JD 885: Research and Writing Seminar
	Small-group instruction in legal research and writing, with emphasis on developing legal research techniques, writing abilities, and legal problem-solving abilities. (Required First Year, spring semester.)		

LAW JD 886: Law and Sports (S)
	This seminar will survey a range of legal issues presented by sports in America.  There are no pre-requisites.  However, students should be prepared to learn and apply basic principles of antitrust law and labor law.  Intellectual property law, constitutional law, administrative law, anti-discrimination law, contract law and tort law also will be applied.  Topics will include the regulation of the professional sports labor market. The course also will treat the regulation of agent representation of athletes, the regulation of sports franchises and sports leagues, and the regulation of intercollegiate sports, with special attention to the NCAA. Grades will be based on client-directed writing and on oral class participation, including an advocacy presentation. Some students may satisfy the Upperclass Writing Requirement. There is no examination. GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option. OFFERING PATTERN: This class not offered every year.  Students are advised to take this into account when planning their long-term schedule. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.   		

LAW JD 887: Taxation of Corporations and Shareholders
		Federal income tax considerations have major implications for planning in the corporate area.  This course focuses on income tax issues in transactions between corporations and shareholders, including distributions, exchanges, reorganizations and capital contributions.  PREREQUISITE: Introduction to Federal Income Taxation. GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option.		

LAW JD 889: Introduction to Federal Income Taxation
	The income tax is a pervasive feature of life in the United States and lawyers encounter tax issues in virtually every field of practice. This course introduces students to the fundamental principles of the federal income tax, and its impact on a wide range of matters, including employment, tort claims, divorce, retirement, and especially business activities and investments of all types. Topics include: the concept of income, determination of gross income, allowance of deductions and the determination of taxable income, identification of the taxpayer, taxable periods and timing, the determination of gain or loss (including realization and recognition) from dealings in property, the concept of income tax basis, and the process of change in the tax law. GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option. 		

LAW JD 890: National Security and Foreign Relations Law (S)
	This seminar will examine the framework of constitutional, statutory, and international law, which both authorizes and constrains the U.S. government's conduct of foreign relations and national security policy at home and abroad. We will cover, among other issues, (i) the respective powers and roles of each branch of the federal government in the realm of foreign relations and national security law; (ii) the use of force; (iii) selected counter-terrorism issues and controversies; and (iv) individual liberties and civil rights in wartime; (v) issues raised in transnational public litigation, including international human rights litigation and actions involving foreign states; (vi) the role and limits of treaties in the U.S. constitutional system; and (vii) extraterritorial application of the Constitution. RECOMMENDED COURSES: International Law. **A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment		

LAW JD 892: Torts
	Principles of civil recovery for injury, including strict liability, negligence, and the intentional torts, with emphasis on the social, economic, and moral underpinnings of the doctrines.		

LAW JD 893: Research and Writing Seminar
	This two-credit Legal Research and Writing seminar is required for LL.M. students in the American Law program.  It is specifically designed to introduce foreign lawyers to the basic principles of American legal writing. In small class settings and individual conferences, students receive guidance on drafting and editing memoranda and agreements. Their work is critiqued and rewritten. The research component of the seminar trains students to locate cases, statutes and secondary material through indexing systems and the latest computer technology. Research assignments are integrated into writing assignments -- exposing students to the methods of US legal analyses -- so that by the end of the term, students obtain the skills needed to write memoranda appropriate for submission to US law firms.   		

LAW JD 894: Trial Advocacy
		This course introduces the student to the structure of the trial process and the skills used by trial lawyers.  The topics covered range from opening statements to closing arguments, including conducting direct and cross-examination of witnesses, making and meeting objections, introducing documents and discovery into evidence, and using hypothetical questions with expert witnesses.  Students must perform simulated exercises and will try one or more civil or criminal cases before a jury.  Visit the web for more information on the instructors.  PREREQUISITE: EVIDENCE.  Students taking TRIAL ADVOCACY in the second semester of their third year may take EVIDENCE as a COREQUISITE.  Students who have taken part in a clinic may not subsequently enroll in Trial Advocacy.  GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option. NOTE:  This class satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement. ** A student who fails either to attend the initial meeting of a section of Trial Advocacy, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the registrar, WILL BE administratively dropped from the section. Students who are on a wait list for a section are required to attend the first section meeting to be considered for enrollment. 		

LAW JD 898: Criminal Trial Practice II/Defenders (C)
	THIS CLASS IS RESTRICTED to 3L students who have applied to and been accepted into the Criminal Clinical Program and who will begin the program in Fall 2014.  This course will meet in the second semester for those students who have completed Criminal Trial Practice I. Students in the Defender Program will be assigned to represent indigent defendants charged with criminal offenses in either the Boston Municipal Court or the Boston Juvenile Court.  In both locations, the students will act as defense counsel under the supervision of a clinical professor. The work in court will provide students with exposure to lawyering experiences such as investigation, interviewing, counseling and trial advocacy. Primary emphasis is on the development of trial skills, and students will spend the first part of the semester acting as defense counsel in misdemeanor cases of increasing complexity. Later in the semester, representation in felony cases is possible, as well as exposure to a number of other aspects of the criminal justice system. At all times, of course, case assignments are based upon an individual assessment of a student's progress and demonstrated competence.  Students in the Defender Program must be available to be in court two days a week, from Monday through Thursday. NOTE: The Criminal Clinical Program satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement. 		

LAW JD 899: Criminal Trial Practice II/Prosecutors (C)
	THIS CLASS IS RESTRICTED to 3L students who have applied to and been accepted into the Criminal Clinical Program and who will begin the program in Fall 2014.  This course will meet in the second semester for those students who have completed Criminal Trial Practice I. Students in the Prosecutor Program will act as prosecutors in the Quincy District Court, for the Norfolk County District Attorney's office. The students will have responsibility for all aspects of the cases they are assigned, under the supervision of the clinical professor. Students will be exposed to a wide variety of experiences, including investigation, interviewing and trial advocacy. Students will spend the first part of the semester representing the Commonwealth in misdemeanor cases of increasing complexity. Later in the semester, representation in felony cases is possible, as well as having an opportunity to appear before a six-person jury session. At all times, of course, case assignments are based upon an individual assessment of a student's progress and demonstrated competence. Students in the Prosecutor Program must be available to be in court two days a week, Monday through Thursday. NOTE: The Criminal Clinical Program satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement. 		

LAW JD 900: The Economics of Intellectual Property Law (S)
	This seminar will explore the economics of intellectual property law. There are no prerequisites. The readings for the seminar will consist of Cass and Hylton, Laws of Creation (2013), and several cases and articles. The seminar will emphasize understanding the policy justifications for the major doctrines in intellectual property. The topics studies will include patent law, copyright law, trademark law, trade secret law, and the intersection of antitrust and intellectual property. ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 14 students.  GRADING NOTICE: This class will not offer the CR/NC/H option. **A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 901: Appellate Advocacy Program Director
	This class is restricted to third-year students who applied and were accepted as directors of the BU Law Moot Court programs (Esdaile, Stone and Albers).   NOTE: Albers and Stone Directors will register for the fall section (A1), while Esdaile Directors will register for the spring section (B1). NOTE:  This class satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement.		

LAW JD 902: Anatomy of a Mass Tort (S)
	An in depth exploration and thrill ride through the modern day David vs. Goliath epic battle of the 9/11 first responders litigation, led by the BU Law alumnus who represented 10,000 plaintiffs. This interactive seminar will allow students to reprise, reenact and role play the most critical events of the decade long litigation labeled "the most complicated Mass Tort in history", while teaching them the fundamental issues and laws concerning Mass Torts in general. GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option.  NOTE:  This class satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement. OFFERING PATTERN: This class is not offered every year.  Students are advised to take this into account when planning their long-term schedule. **  A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who waitlist for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.   		

LAW JD 903: Supreme Court 2014 Term: Criminal Law, Criminal Procedure and Habeas Cases (S)
	This course will focus on criminal procedure and criminal law cases that are currently on the docket of the Supreme Court.  Each week, the class will read a substantial amount of materials in preparation for one case, including its lower court opinion, the briefs from each party, two sets of amicus briefs, and a Supreme Court opinion drafted by a member of the class. Students will also be expected to read the most significant Supreme Court precedents involving each case. Prior to each class session, each student will be responsible for writing a 3-5 page memo critiquing the readings of the week. Students will also be responsible for drafting one 20-25 page Supreme Court opinion to be distributed to and discussed by the class.  Criminal Procedure is not a prerequisite for this course. ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 18 students. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.   		

LAW JD 905: Entertainment Law (S)
	This course will focus on the varied legal doctrines that influence both the business and practice of Entertainment Law.  Some of the primary topics include issues involving publicity rights and the use and control of image, celebrity and promotion issues, defamation and free speech, invasion of privacy, copyright including infringement and dispute and other general contractual relations surrounding the entertainment field. The course will also explore the practical aspects of entertainment law such as complicated litigation issues involving jurisdictional and venue concerns, client counseling and negotiations and other ethical concerns raised in the course of representation of your client.  This course will not focus on sports entertainment or any other specific labor-related organizations.  There will be no final exam.  Grades will be based upon papers and class participation. LIMITED WRITING REQUIREMENT OPTION:  A limited number of students may be permitted to satisfy the upper-class writing requirement with the approval of the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs. ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 18 students. GRADING NOTICE: This class does not offer the CR/NC/H option.  **A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 907: Representing Life Sciences Companies: Biotechnology, Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices (S)
	Biotechnology and Pharmaceuticals are two of the fastest growing industries in the U.S., and the legal issues that arise in connection with representing them are complex and evolving.  This seminar will focus on the transactional, intellectual property, and regulatory legal issues that challenge lawyers working with clients in these industries.  We will begin with an overview of these industries, including a basic review of the sciences underpinning them (intended for non-scientists).  We will then delve into complex legal issues such as licensing, collaborations, and consortium building; academic-industry interactions; the drug and biologic regulatory approval process; issues arising in clinical trials; and legal issues arising in the manufacture and distribution of life sciences products.  If time permits, we will also examine the medical device industry and the ways in which that industry differs from the biopharmaceutical industry.  In lieu of an exam, students will prepare a 25 page, journal-worthy article addressing a legal topic of the student's selection.  PREREQUISITE: No scientific background will be required, but students will benefit from prior or contemporaneous coursework in intellectual property. LIMITED WRITING REQUIREMENT OPTION:  A limited number of students may be permitted to satisfy the upper-class writing requirement with the approval of the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs.  NOTE:  This seminar satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement.  OFFERING PATTERN: This class is not offered every year.  Students are advised to take this into account when planning their long-term schedule. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 908: Judging in the American Legal System (S)
	This seminar explores the professional role of judges, both state and federal, in our American legal system.  It invites analysis of the distinctive features of our judiciary, its multiple roles in legal determinations under stare decisis, in statutory interpretation, in fact finding (both at trial and in other contexts), in the many interactions with the direct democracy of the American jury, in administration and case management, and in contacts with the legislative and executive branches.  LIMITED WRITING REQUIREMENT OPTION:  A limited number of students may be permitted to satisfy the upper-class writing requirement with the approval of the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.   		

LAW JD 913: Criminal Trial Practice II (C)
	THIS CLASS IS RESTRICTED to 3L students who started the Criminal Clinic in Spring 2014.  Criminal Trial Practice II will consider advanced issues in criminal practice, such as motions to suppress and sentencing advocacy.  In conjunction with their class work, these students will be assigned to either the Prosecutor or Defender component of the clinic.  Each student will be expected to devote at least two mornings a week to their work in court. NOTE: The Criminal Clinical Program satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement. 		

LAW JD 917: Constitution &amp; Foreign Affairs (S)
	This seminar will examine how the constitution is implicated in foreign affairs. We shall begin by reviewing the main theories of foreign affairs. Then and throughout the course we shall attempt to understand how these theories are manifested in American constitutional law. We shall ask how the constitution of the United States structures the national decision making process concerning foreign policy, and place special emphasis on matters of war and peace. The respective powers of the executive and legislative branches, the power of the senate vs. the president and the senate vs. the house of representatives will be examined. We shall emphasize judicial opinions, but also look at other materials. Examples to be included:  the nomination process of ambassadors in the context of the power of senators to filibuster and the constitutionality of filibustering;  the power of the president to recognize and structure relations with other countries such as China; the treaty power and the matter of economic sanctions. ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 18 students.  ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.**		

LAW JD 919: Negotiated Mergers &amp; Acquisitions (S)
	This seminar introduces students to the principal business and legal issues found in and raised by mergers and acquisitions transactions and highlights the significant role that lawyers play in structuring, managing and effecting these complex transactions. The seminar will begin with an overview of how and why mergers and acquisitions take place. The course will then cover the mergers and acquisitions process, including deal-making strategies the corporate law affords, and will proceed through all aspects of the life of an M&amp;A deal from inception to closing (and beyond).   The seminar will cover how M&amp;A lawyers negotiate and document the inherent risk allocations of business combinations. We will examine deal terms and structures, risk defining and shifting devices, and the role of the lawyer in managing the process. We will also highlight the due diligence process, stockholder relationships, fiduciary duties and securities laws considerations, and liquidity considerations. Theoretical readings will be balanced against practical articles and commentary, recent court decisions and model deal documents. The assigned reading will include materials from real deals and transaction documents. Students are encouraged to analyze and discuss the real-world problems faced by parties, legal counselors and courts called upon to judge such transactions. The seminar will be highlighted by guest lectures by experts in international M&amp;A and Delaware jurisprudence.  Students will be required to participate in mock negotiations/discussions. In addition, there will be a short final exam. Grades will be based on class participation and written materials (70%), which may include required email submissions prior to class and mock negotiations/discussions during class, and a final exam (30%). PREREQUISITE: Corporations.  (May be waived with an instructor's permission.)  NOTES: This seminar does not satisfy the Upper-class Writing Requirement.  This seminar satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement. **A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment. 		

LAW JD 920: Issues in Criminal Justice
	This seminar will explore issues which the students encounter in the cases which they litigate. The seminar will discuss the role of the parties in the criminal justice system and institutional problems that play a recurring role. 		

LAW JD 921: Negotiation
	The goal of this course is to improve your effectiveness as a negotiator. In this highly interactive class, students will examine negotiation from a variety of perspectives and learn specific negotiation strategies and tactics. Over the course of the semester, students will engage in a series of negotiation exercises (i.e., role plays) through which they can develop and hone their negotiation skills and approaches. Discussion and short lectures will accompany the role-plays, as appropriate.  There will be short written assignments (1-2 pages) in which students reflect upon and analyze their performance in the negotiation exercises, as well as a longer paper due at the end of the semester.  No final exam.  NOTE:  This course satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement.  GRADING NOTICE:  This seminar does not offer the CR/NC/H option. RESTRICTION: Students may not enroll in Negotiation and Alternative Dispute Resolution (JD881).		

LAW JD 923: Criminal Trial Practice/Professional Responsibility
	THIS CLASS IS RESTRICTED to 3L students who started the Criminal Clinic in Spring 2014.  The course will focus on ethical issues that arise in the context of criminal trial litigation.  NOTE: This component satisfies the School of Law's Professional Responsibility requirement. GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option.		

LAW JD 924: Legal Externship Program: Fieldwork (C)
	The Legal Externship Program is a one semester clinical program where students work for credit at a public interest, for profit company, judicial or government organization. Through the program, students gain hands-on legal experience under the supervision of practitioners who are experts in their fields. Students receive variable credits (pass/fail) for the fieldwork component of the externship, determined as follows: 3 credits = 150 hours total; 4 credits = 200 hours total; and 5 credits = 250 hours total.  The student's schedule and hours are determined in consulation with the placement supervisors. Some placements require 250 hours. The fieldwork begins the first week of classes and students work through the last week of classes. Students may not begin the fieldwork before the semester begins.  Upon acceptance, Professor Lois Knight works with students to identify suitable field placements depending on each student's individual interests and career goals. Once possible placement organizations are identified, students are responsible for applying to those organizations.  Although there are no formal prequisites, some classes are highly recommended. For any litigation-based placement, you should have taken Evidence. For any criminal placement, in particular the criminal division of the US Attorney's Office, you should have taken Criminal Procedure. Additionally, you should take any other substantive law class that will help you understand the law related to your placement. For example, if you want to work at an environmental placement, you should take an environmental law class. COREQUISITE: Legal Externship Program: Legal Ethics (JD 925). NOTE: The Legal Externship Program satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement. 		

LAW JD 925: Legal Externship Program: Legal Ethics
	The Legal Externship is a one-semester clinical program. Students are required to apply and be accepted to the program before they may register. The weekly seminar is required of all Legal Externship participants.  An integral part of the externship, this two hour weekly seminar examines legal practice and the ethics of lawyering. The seminar requires students to write a paper and make a class presentation. In addition, each student keeps a weekly journal chronicling their educational experience and reactions to the practice of law observed at the field placements. NOTE: The seminar satisfies the Law School's professional responsibility requirement. COREQUISITE: Legal Externship Program: Fieldwork (JD 924). GRADING NOTICE: This class does not offer the CR/NC/H option.		

LAW JD 927: International Law
	This course will offer a basic survey of contemporary international law. It will teach students the minimum that every lawyer should know about the major issues of public international law and policy that influence current events and modern legal practice. It will also provide a foundation for those interested in further study of particular topics covered. We will consider both the historical "law of nations" and post-World War II developments, which have shifted the fulcrum of the system from an exclusive focus on the rights and duties of states inter se to a broader focus on all the diverse participants in the contemporary international legal process: not only states but intergovernmental and nongovernmental organizations, insurgents, multinational business enterprises, terrorist and criminal associations, and individuals. Specific topics will include: (i) the history, nature, sources and efficacy of international law; (ii) the establishment, transformation and termination of states and other actors, including international institutions and, in particular, the United Nations; (iii) the domestic incorporation of international law, with a focus on key concepts of U.S. foreign relations law; (iv) the allocation among states of jurisdiction to prescribe and apply law, as well as jurisdictional immunities; (v) human rights, the laws of war, and international criminal law; (vi) the allocation of control over and regulation of the resources of the planet, including the law of the sea, territory, the environment, and the global economy; and (vii) the use of force. The role of power in the international legal system will be candidly acknowledged-and the problems and opportunities it presents explored. Current international events will be woven into the curriculum as appropriate. Examination.		

LAW JD 928: Shareholder Activism (S)
	In recent years, shareholder activism has transformed the way public companies are run.  Many shareholders are no longer content to passively defer to senior managers and boards of directors while quietly collecting their dividends and hoping for share price appreciation.  This course will explore various forms of shareholder activism.  We will examine the debate over proxy access and its successful inclusion in Dodd-Frank, say-on-pay initiatives, majority voting for directors, the corporate governance reform movement, and shareholder litigation, touching on both securities fraud class actions and deal litigation.  We will examine the debate over socially responsible investing and the problems posed by corporations' use of shareholder dollars to make campaign contributions, particularly in light of the Supreme Court's recent decision in Citizens United.  In examining these debates we will discuss the costs and benefits of such activism.  Students will also develop an appreciation for the institutional players that drive this activism, and for those that oppose it.  PREREQUISITE: Corporations (may be waived with instructor's permission).  NOTE: A limited number of students may be permitted to satisfy the upper-class writing requirement with the approval of the instructor. GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 931: Private Equity and Venture Capital Transactions (S)
	This seminar introduces students to the business and legal issues prevalent in private equity and venture capital deals and highlights the significant role that lawyers play in effecting these transactions.  The seminar will begin with an overview of the private equity and venture capital industries, an introduction to investment transactions and will proceed through all aspects of the life of an investment from inception to exit.  It will address how investment funds are formed and the legal and financial considerations present when those funds invest in private companies.  We will examine deal terms and structures, pricing and corporate finance issues, and the management of deal risk.  It will also highlight the due diligence process, stockholder relationships, fiduciary duties and securities laws considerations, and liquidity events.  Theoretical readings will be balanced against practical articles and commentary, recent court decisions and model deal documents.  The seminar will be highlighted by guest lectures by private equity and venture capital investment professionals.  Grades will be based on a final exam, short pre-class exercises and class participation.  PREREQUISITE: Corporations (May be waived with an instructor's permission.)  RESTRICTION:  Students may enroll in this seminar even though they have previously taken the Deals course, but students may not take Deals after they have taken this seminar.  NOTES: This seminar does not satisfy the Upper-class Writing Requirement.  This seminar satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.  		

LAW JD 932: Admiralty
	Admiralty cases comprise a significant portion of the case load of federal courts near U.S. ports.  Clerks for judges in those courts should have an understanding of admiralty law.  In addition, lawyers who handle international transactions will likely encounter admiralty issues even if they do not specialize in admiralty law.  The practice of admiralty law is by its nature international.  Admiralty practitioners work with lawyers and clients from many nations and travel often to those nations.  The course will examine admiralty jurisdiction of the federal and state courts as well as oft litigated choice of law and choice of forum issues.  Our examination of the substantive areas of admiralty law will show how they fit together and affect one another.  The substantive areas will include the international and domestic multimodal carriage of goods, charter parties (contracts to use an entire ship or part of a ship), salvage, towing, pilotage, collision, stranding, general average, and personal injury.  We shall also examine ship mortgages and marine insurance.  Marine insurance affects almost all aspects of admiralty law.  We shall attempt to predict the affects of the Rotterdam Rules (a new treaty that the United States and other nations are in the process of ratifying) on various aspects of admiralty law, particularly the carriage of goods. This course is a pre-requisite to apply for membership in the three student Judge John R. Brown Admiralty Moot Court Competition, which will be held in Charleston, S.C. from March 19 to 21, 2015. Applicants must also participate before March 19, 2015 in the Stone Moot Court Competition. OFFERING PATTERN: This class is not offered every year.  Students are advised to take this into account when planning their long-term schedule.		

LAW JD 933: Anarchism (S)
	Anarchism is usually by treated political philosophers as either a starting point for statist theories (Nozick) or as a reductio in arguments against opposing theories ("But that's anarchy!"), but very little attempt is made to consider it as a plausible alternative to statist theories.  In this course we will discuss the varieties of anarchisms and a range of issues connected to it:  the obligation to obey the law, the nature of political consent, the nature of justification and legitimacy.  We will also discuss historical examples of anarchism and a wide range of theorists past and present from Bakunin and Goldmann to Simmons and Huemer. Written work will consist of two papers, 2500-3500 words each, one due around mid-term, the other due at the end of the term.  Each will address a theoretical issue directly related to one or more of the issues that will have already been addressed in the seminar.  One of each student's papers will be read by one of the instructors, the other one will be read by the other instructor. The seminar will be open to both upper-class law students and graduate students in philosophy.  The seminar will meet in STH 541 on Thursdays 4:20-6:20 pm but will follow the Law School's calendar, meeting from January 15 through April 16.   ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.   		

LAW JD 934: Affordable Housing Law Externship: Fieldwork (C)
	Through the Affordable Housing Externship Program, students receive credit for an externship done in conjunction with the Affordable Housing and Community Development seminar (JD935), taught by Mr. Peter Freeman.  Students receive 3 credits (C/NC) for performing 150 hours of fieldwork (about 12 hours per week), and 3 credits (graded) for the weekly seminar.  The solutions to the ongoing problem and challenge of providing affordable housing and sustainable community development in our nation's cities and towns will occur only through the interdisciplinary efforts of lawyers, community groups, financial institutions, architects, engineers, planners and governmental agencies (at the local, state and federal levels). The Affordable Housing Externship Program provides opportunities for students to interface directly with the players mentioned above. "Learning the law" in this field is therefore enhanced immeasurably.  The externship component offers the opportunity for students to experience how various laws, tools and programs come together in the real world to achieve the goal - project by project and case by case - of providing affordable housing and sustainable community development. Boston has a great wealth of public and non-profit housing and community development agencies, each providing a great experience for students. Students must submit an application for the Externship by April 15.  Please contact Mr. Freeman for more information about specific placement possibilities.		

LAW JD 935: Affordable Housing Law (S)
	The seminar will combine a focus on: 1) public policy issues related to the goals of creation of affordable housing in the context of community revitalization; and 2) real-world implementation strategies that have been successfully used to achieve these goals.  Analyzing the roles of government agencies, non-profit organizations, neighborhood groups, and private businesses will be a key part of the seminar.  In lieu of a traditional exam or term paper, students will engage in field research and investigation of real community projects as part of semester long case studies, where they will work with lawyers, government officials, developers and grass-roots advocates involved with the projects.  The relative utility of traditional legal techniques (such as land use planning devices,  zoning, easements, revolving trusts, leasehold covenants and financing) will be carefully analyzed; the policies and impact of federal, state and local laws, including federal and state affordable housing financing programs and the Community Preservation Act in Massachusetts, will be examined; and possible new approaches will be considered.  By incorporating real-world projects into the seminar, it is hoped that the interface of law, economics, planning, design, and construction disciplines will enable the problems to be analyzed from a variety of perspectives reflecting a client's and a community's practical concerns.  LIMITED WRITING REQUIREMENT OPTION:  A limited number of students may be permitted to satisfy the upper-class writing requirement with the approval of the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs. CLINIC OPTION: A limited number of students may apply to enroll in the Affordable Housing Law Externship Program (JD934).  See the Clinical Programs website for more information. **  A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 936: International Development and Project Finance (S)
	Capital-intensive public and private development projects throughout the world, including large-scale infrastructure, transportation, energy, agriculture, technology and environmental projects depend upon project financing as the primary funding mechanism.  Understanding and resolving the political, legal and financial risks associated with the planning and implementation of these projects, and often in emerging and unstable economies, is the critical first step in developing project finance opportunities.  The seminar will combine theory and practice and focus on the negotiation and structure of actual project finance and concession agreements and transactions and the minimization of exposures and risks associated with these transactions.  Each step of the project finance process will be analyzed, including the rationale and sources for the project finance, the legal framework for the project finance, the organizational and governance structure, risk allocation and mitigation and dispute resolution.  An interdisciplinary analysis from the legal, finance and public perspective will be used to assess the views that investors, lenders, designers, contractors, governmental participants, citizens and other stakeholders bring to an infrastructure project.  Several of the world's largest and most complex civil engineering and infrastructure mega projects including the English Chunnel, the Chad Cameroon Pipeline, the Dabhol Power Project and Boston's Central Artery Tunnel Project will serve as models for analysis of project finance and risk.  A final research paper will be required in lieu of an examination.  NOTE: This seminar satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement.  LIMITED WRITING REQUIREMENT OPTION: A limited number of students may be permitted to satisfy the upper-class writing requirement.  **A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment. 		

LAW JD 937: American Legislative Practice: Interns/Fieldwork (C)
	American Legislative Practice is a one-semester clinical program.  Students are required to apply and be accepted to the program before they register.  The Internship Option will be offered in both the spring and fall semesters in 2011/2012.  Accepted students will work with a Senator or Representative in the Massachusetts Legislature for 3-5 ungraded credits.  The program matches second-year and third-year students with Senators and Representatives at the Massachusetts State House.  Interns may draft legislation; evaluate testimony; participate in planning meetings with legislators and staff; research questions of law and fact for proposed legislation; observe legislative strategy sessions and negotiations; attend floor debates and committee meetings.  COREQUISITE:  American Legislative Practice: Interns/Seminar (JD 938).  NOTE: This program satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement. 		

LAW JD 938: American Legislative Practice: Interns/Seminar
	The American Legislative Practice: Internship option is a one-semester clinical program.  Students are required to apply and be accepted to the program before they register.  The Internship option is offered in both the spring and fall semesters in 2011/2012.  The American Legislative Practice seminar will cover subjects that affect the legislative process including: constitutional interpretation by legislatures, theories of representation, legislative organization and rules, lobbying, legislative oversight powers, and legislature-executive agency relationships.  The seminar component counts for three graded credits.  COREQUISITE: American Legislative Practice: Interns/Fieldwork(JD937).		

LAW JD 940: Law &amp; Economics Workshop (S)
	The Law and Economics Seminar is a research workshop. The first three class sessions will focus on selected basic topics in law and economics, including methodology commonly used in law and economics scholarship. In the following class sessions, outside speakers (typically faculty members from other institutions) will present their current work in the field. The specific topics considered will vary depending on the interests of the speakers, but the general focus will be the application of economic concepts and tools to legal and regulatory issues. Students are responsible for preparing short weekly memoranda that respond to the presented papers. NOTES: This seminar does not satisfy the Upper-class Writing Requirement.  OFFERING PATTERN: This class not offered every year.  Students are advised to take this into account when planning their long-term schedule.  		

LAW JD 941: Corporate Governance (S)
	This seminar will address corporate governance issues from an historical as well as current perspective.  In addressing the legal framework of corporate governance for the modern U.S. corporation, we will consider the implications for corporate governance posed by different players, including investors, independent directors, corporate management, employees and other stakeholders.  Throughout our discussions, we will seek to take into account the roles played by courts, legislatures, and regulatory bodies, as well as the challenges and responsibilities of lawyers who advise their clients in various settings.  In addition to discussion of legal academic writings, cases and relevant laws, we will engage in a number of role-playing exercises in class.  For example, students may be called upon to play various roles in a simulated annual meeting of shareholders involving a campaign to withhold votes to elect a company's board chairman or to play the role of legal advisers to independent directors of a company's board who are called upon to negotiate the compensation of the company's chief executive officer.  There is no exam in this course.  Each student will be required to write one short paper (up to 5 pages) that will cover a topic for a given class and will be responsible for leading (or co-leading with one or more other students) the discussion on that topic for a substantial portion of that class.  In this regard, the student or students responsible for leading the discussion in a given class will also be asked to identify and post an additional reading for that class.  Each student will also be required to write a longer paper of publishable quality due at the end of the semester.  The professor will consult with each student at the outset, when a research topic is chosen, and during other stages of the research and writing process.  PREREQUISITE: Corporations.  RECOMMENDED:  Securities Regulation (either prior to or concurrent with this course.)  LIMITED WRITING REQUIREMENT OPTION:  A limited number of students may be permitted to satisfy the upper-class writing requirement with the approval of the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who waitlist for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.   		

LAW JD 942: English Legal History
	This course will cover the history of the common law in England from the late twelfth century to the time of the American Revolution.  We will study the development of the legal profession, its doctrines, and its techniques in five areas: procedure, criminal law, property, contract, and tort.  The readings emphasize primary sources, and students will give presentations in teams on historical documents handed out in class.  Students can either write a research paper or complete a take-home examination.  Research papers may, but need not fulfill the Writing Requirement. OFFERING PATTERN: This class not offered every year.  Students are advised to take this into account when planning their long-term schedule. 		

LAW JD 945: Trial Advocacy (Advanced)
	This class will be limited to 12 third-year students who have completed an evidence course, trial advocacy course, and have viewed "My Cousin Vinny."  Invited to participate in teaching this class are prominent members of the Massachusetts trial bar, a storyteller and, from time to time other interesting guests. The class focuses on the strategy, technique, and trial of complex multiparty cases, and the analysis of sophisticated evidentiary problems. GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option. NOTE:  This class satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement.  NOTE: All classes are held at the school except for the final trial of a complex case which is held at the Suffolk County Courthouse and which takes place during two regularly scheduled class periods. *** A student who fails either to attend the initial meeting of Trial Advocacy (Advanced), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the registrar, will be administratively dropped from the section. Students who are on a wait list for a section are required to attend the first section meeting to be considered for enrollment.   		

LAW JD 946: Criminal Law
	Examines the basic principles of substantive criminal law, including the justifications for punishment, the essential elements of offenses, mitigating and exculpating defenses, and different forms of criminal liability.		

LAW JD 948: Immigrants &amp; the Law (S)
	 Recent census data informs us that there are approximately 40 million immigrants living in the United States.  About 11 million of these immigrants are undocumented or otherwise in the country illegally.  The rest of the country remains divided on their feelings regarding the immigrant population, with about half believing that immigrants "strengthen the country because of their hard work and talent, while 41% [believe them to be] a burden because they take jobs, health care and housing."  1 This course will investigate the life of an immigrant in American society from a legal perspective.  Students will learn how immigrants, both documented and undocumented, interact with various sections of the American system.  The goal is to assess various ways in which an individual's immigration status affects access to important rights and benefits accorded to citizens and analyze the legal rationale for existing limitations.  We will examine these issues through the use of law review articles, court cases, existing and proposed legislation, newspaper articles, empirical studies, and governmental and private organizational position papers. Topics may include an investigation of an immigrant's access and limitations in primary and secondary education, public benefits, the court system, employment, voting, as well as modes of immigration policing by both federal immigration authorities and state police. LIMITED WRITING REQUIREMENT OPTION: A limited number of students may be permitted to satisfy the upper-class writing requirement.  GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 950: Homicide Investigations and Trials: Theory and Practice (S)
	This seminar will focus upon the substantive law of homicide, as well as the practical aspects of actual homicide investigations and trials:  crime scene interpretation; DNA analysis; autopsies and related forensic evidence; expert testimony, particularly in the area of psychiatry and criminal responsibility; jury considerations; ethical concerns; and the role of the media. Students will have the opportunity to study actual murder cases, visit local crime laboratories and courtrooms, and learn prosecution, defense, and judicial perspectives on various contemporary issues arising in murder investigations and trials.  NOTE:  This seminar satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement.  LIMITED WRITING REQUIREMENT OPTION:  A limited number of students may be permitted to satisfy the upper-class writing requirement with the approval of the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs.  OFFERING PATTERN: This class is not offered every year.  Students are advised to take this into account when planning their long-term schedule. **  A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who waitlist for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.   		

LAW JD 951: Comparative Law (S)
	This seminar is an introduction to comparative law's themes and methods.  Accordingly, the seminar is organized in two parts.  The readings selected for the first part present theoretical articulations and practical applications of the main methodological approaches relied upon by comparative lawyers.  Participants will become acquainted with the "mechanics", as well as the broader implications, of the various ways of comparing: functionalism, structuralism, culturalism, postmodern neo-culturalism and critical comparative law.  The materials discussed in the second part explore how these different methodologies play out in recent and heated comparative law debates. Participants will be asked to reflect over the common law-civil law dichotomy and its implications for the debate over the European Civil Code as well as for projects of harmonization, such as the World Bank's "Legal Origins" study; the circulation of legal rules and institutions and the export of constitutional models in Eastern Europe and Iraq; the ambiguous relation between US and European legal cultures and the debate over different ideas of "privacy"; the "West" and the "Orient" in family law reform. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 952: Copyright Law
	Copyright is one of the major legal regimes governing art, software, information, and entertainment, and its rules deeply affect how the internet operates. This course is a policy and skills-oriented study of federal copyright law.    Much of copyright policy can be clarified by using some basic tools from economics and philosophy; these analytic tools will be taught during the course, and no prior knowledge is required. As for skills, the course focuses on two: how to tackle and master a complex set of interrelated statutory provisions, and how to articulate legal principles orally in a way that would be comprehensible to an untutored judge.  Rather than having a predominant lecture format, the course puts student analysis at its center.  The course will cover the exclusive rights granted to creators of "original works of authorship", the authorial subject-matters eligible for federal copyright, the nature of an infringement action, and defenses such as fair use. In addition, students will be expected to master at least one detailed, statute-governed topic such as duration (how long do rights over a given work of authorship remain in private hands before becoming free for all to copy) or the inalienable right of termination (how authors can retrieve their copyrights despite having signed contracts indicating that they have sold all rights).  The course also examines some state rights, such as the 'right of publicity' and 'quasi-property rights against the misappropriation of data', for purposes of exploring how these state doctrines interact with, or are pre-empted by, federal copyright law.		

LAW JD 953: International Intellectual Property (S)
		International law is increasingly important to domestic lawyers every day. This is as true in intellectual property as in any field. Regulation of intellectual property is a cornerstone in the globalization of trade and commerce. In order to harmonize intellectual property laws, more and more countries sign up to multilateral agreements regulating these laws. However, jurisdictional differences still exist and affect this process. This seminar examines international agreements and comparative laws on intellectual property and ways in which the intellectual property laws of the United States relate to those of other nations. Topics will include securing and enforcing rights in trademarks, copyrights and patents under international regimes and in various jurisdictions, and selected topics such as database protection, geographical indications, the interplay between intellectual property, international trade and culture, and Internet-related issues.   The seminar is designed to afford students who intend to practice in IP an acquaintance with key international IP principles and policy issues. The seminar will impart understanding in these areas using materials such as treaties, cases and commentary. The seminar will treat international and European intellectual property separately, and will focus on the major international systems related to each substantive IP area. The seminar is open to students who have completed or are enrolled in an IP survey course, or to LLMs with some intellectual property experience.  LIMITED WRITING REQUIREMENT OPTION:  A limited number of students may be permitted to satisfy the upper-class writing requirement with the approval of the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs. ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 16 students. GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.   		

LAW JD 957: Law and Sexual Minorities (S)
	This seminar will consider the legal treatment of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgendered citizens.  In particular, the seminar will cover evolving family structures, privacy rights, the military, employment discrimination, and the tension between protecting the rights of victims of discrimination and those who discriminate.  Students will write a research paper or an appellate brief and will prepare an oral presentation.  Students may satisfy the upperclass writing requirement with their paper. OFFERING PATTERN: This class is not offered every year.  Students are advised to take this into account when planning their long-term schedule. ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 18 students. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.   		

LAW JD 958: Effective &amp; Ethical Depositions (S)
	The purpose of this seminar is to teach students how to take and defend effective and ethical depositions.  The course involves both a simulated deposition component and a professional responsibility component.  The seminar also satisfies the professional responsibility requirement.  Simulated Deposition Course Component:  Students will be divided into firms representing either the Plaintiff or the Defendants in a gender discrimination and defamation case brought by an attorney who has been denied partnership.  The students will prepare and perform depositions of lay and expert witnesses and gather experience with obtaining and developing facts, preserving testimony, and the uses of depositions.  Professional Responsibility Course Component:  The simulated context offers the opportunity to explore several professional responsibility issues that arise naturally in deposition practice.  These issues emerge largely because of the dual professional roles of an attorney:  zealous representative and officer of the court.  Some of the more timely issues involve proper witness preparation, improper witness coaching, inadvertent waiver of privilege, and abusive tactics.  Writing and Performance Requirements:  Each week students will write a short one or two page comment on the professional responsibility issues raised in class.  At the end of the course, students will perform a videotaped deposition rather than take a final written exam.  NOTE:  This seminar satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement. ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 16 students. LIMITED WRITING REQUIREMENT: A limited number of students may elect to use this course to fulfill the upper-class writing requirement.  GRADING NOTICE:  This seminar does not offer the CR/NC/H option. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.   		

LAW JD 959: International Business Agreements: Negotiating, Structuring and Drafting (S)
	This seminar will provide an overview of the private dimensions of negotiating and drafting international business agreements, and specifically on the contractual aspects. Students will gain hands on experience in structuring, drafting and analyzing various international business agreements and documents including global joint venture agreements and privatization provisions, sales, distribution and franchise agreements, international development agreements, share purchase agreements, letters of intent and technology licensing agreements.   The design of the class will assist students in identifying critical legal issues and techniques likely to affect the outcome of international business negotiations including protecting against political, economic and legal risks. Emphasis will be placed on the important differences between international and domestic agreements from the American law perspective. Grades will be based on class participation and a final research paper.  At the option of the student a final examination can be taken in lieu of a research paper.  NOTE:  This seminar satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement.  LIMITED WRITING REQUIREMENT OPTION:  A limited number of students may be permitted to satisfy the upper-class writing requirement. **A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.  		

LAW JD 962: Forensic Mental Health Issues for Lawyers (S)
	Attorneys routinely deal with forensic mental health issues in the practice of criminal, tort, juvenile delinquency, child protection, civil rights, disability, employment and family law.  Familiarity with the law alone is rarely adequate for effective advocacy in these areas of law when mental health issues arise.  This course surveys the intersection between psychiatry and law with a focus on applications for legal practice.  Topics include:  competence to stand trial, criminal responsibility, competence to be executed, involuntary civil commitment, child protection and divorce child custody, commitment of sexual offenders, mental health malpractice, emotional distress claims, and use of mental health expert testimony in the post-Daubert era.  NOTES: This seminar does not satisfy the Upper-class Writing Requirement. OFFERING PATTERN: This class is not offered every year.  Students are advised to take this into account when planning their long-term schedule. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment. 		

LAW JD 964: Patent Litigation
	This course will examine all aspects of U.S. patent litigation, beginning with pre-filing considerations such as standing, jurisdiction, and choice of law, and ending with the appeal.  Particular attention will be given to pleadings, claim construction, discovery, and motion practice, as well as the methods of proving invalidity, unenforceability, and infringement.  The course will also consider trial preparation techniques, trial practice, the role of technical experts, and the remedies available in patent cases.  Students will be evaluated based on a writing assignment that will require drafting a litigation-related document, such as a claim construction brief or summary judgment motion, and a short final exam.  No scientific or technical background is required to enroll in this course, and there are no prerequisites, although prior or concurrent exposure to patent law (such as through the Patent Law course or the Intellectual Property course) may be helpful.    		

LAW JD 967: Advanced Trial Practice (S)
	This intensive seminar takes an integrated approach to civil and criminal procedure, evidence, and trial practice to teach the current trial techniques at work in our courts.  Taught at the United States District Court itself, the course involves in-court observations, specific critique of actual trial presentations, and seminar discussion of all aspects of procedure, trial preparation, evidence, and trial practice.  A term paper on some aspect of the trial process is required.  While neither evidence nor trial practice is a formal prerequisite for this course, they are recommended.  The goal of the seminar is to enhance the quality of judgment, exposition, and fact-law teaching a lawyer exercises on behalf of the client in the trial environment.  The first class meeting will take place at the Law School - Date/Time TBA.  LIMITED WRITING REQUIREMENT OPTION:  A limited number of students may be permitted to satisfy the upper-class writing requirement with the approval of the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs.  NOTE:  This seminar satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 968: Immigration Law
	This class will cover the immigration laws of the United States, including the administrative and regulatory framework of the United States agencies charged with enforcing U.S. immigration laws.  The topics covered by this course include the power of the Congress to regulate immigration; the effect of politics on immigration policy; nonimmigrant and immigrant visa classifications and visa processing; the law of asylum; the effect of criminal acts on immigration status; grounds of removal from the United States; relief from deportation, immigration court representation; and the law of naturalization and derived citizenship.  GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option.		

LAW JD 970: Representing Clients in Civil Actions (S)
	 A family and a business struggle with a real death and a real lawsuit.  The case is yours.  Now what?  In this seminar, students will represent opposing parties in a civil action based upon real events involving the death of a college student while on spring break in Mexico.  Through discussion, role plays, simulations and out-of-class assignments, students will gain perspective on what's at stake when handling a serious and complex matter in the real world - from the first client meeting to settlement.  The goal of the class is for students to learn the skills they need to be effective counsel in civil actions, including fact gathering, interviewing clients and witnesses, drafting a complaint, preparing interrogatories and responses, conducting depositions, evaluating the strength of a case, and preparing a settlement memoranda.  Beyond developing important technical skills, students will develop their abilities to communicate effectively, evaluate options, make decisions, assess risk, exercise judgment, and counsel wisely - the real skills they will use every day as lawyers.  Students will be evaluated based on class participation and written work.  NOTE:  This class satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment. 		

LAW JD 972: Lawyering in the 21st Century (S)
	The practice of law has changed dramatically in the last several decades and is expected to change even more in the not-too-distant future.  Developments in global commerce and information technology are at the forefront of this change.  The globalization of commerce has resulted in the globalization of law practice, making the regulation of lawyers more difficult and less predictable.  Changes in lawyer regulation elsewhere in the world, such as the radical reforms recently enacted in the UK and in Australia (permitting the ownership of law firms by nonlawyers, including public investment, as well as the formation of multidisciplinary practices), are bound to have important implications for US lawyers.  Even for lawyers whose practices remain primarily local, developments in information technology have resulted in new challenges, such as: 1) storing and protecting the confidentiality of electronic files; 2) regulating the quality of work outsourced to cheaper providers, including foreign lawyers; 3) regulating the provision of legal services through the internet; and 4) special issues concerning marketing and confidentiality that arise from the extensive use of social network sites.  This seminar will explore the ethical issues raised by these changes in the practice of law, including issues concerning unauthorized practice of law, conflicts of interest, confidentiality, advertising and solicitation. A substantial research paper will be required. There are no prerequisites for this seminar. This seminar satisfies the upper-class professional responsibility requirement. ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 18 students. GRADING NOTICE:  This seminar does not offer the CR/NC/H option.  ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW JD 973: Civil Litigation Program/Pretrial Advocacy
	The program also includes a serious classroom component during which you learn the theories of practice for use in the field.  Pretrial Advocacy is taught in groups of roughly 14 students and two clinical professors per group. Half of the classes are devoted to activities and simulations in which you role play with the skills that are taught.  Students in the HEFD (section A1) and IRC (section B1) options take Pretrial Advocacy in the fall.  Students in the ERC fall option (section C1) will take Pretrial Advocacy plus a "bootcamp" in Trial Advocacy. Please note that only the HEFD and ERC section of Pre-Trial Advocacy will satisfy the Professional Responsibility requirement.  The IRC section will not satisfy the requirement. GRADING NOTICE: HEFD &amp; ERC sections do not offer the CR/NC/H option.		

LAW JD 974: Civil Litigation Program/Trial Advocacy
	The program also includes a serious classroom component during which you learn the theories of practice for use in the field.  Trial Advocacy is taught in groups of roughly 14 students and two clinical professors per group. Half of the classes are devoted to activities and simulations in which you role play with the skills that are taught.  Students in the HEFD (section A1) and IRC (section B1) options take Trial Advocacy in the spring.  Students in the ERC spring option (section C2) will take Trial Advocacy plus a "bootcamp" in Pretrial Advocacy.		

LAW JD 975: International Human Rights Clinic (C)
	The International Human Rights Clinic is part of BU Law's expanded practicum of offerings in international human rights that includes the Semester-in-Practice Program in Geneva and international pro bono project trips. The Clinic develops and expands on human rights projects including:  representing international NGO's in advocacy in the UN Human Rights Council, the treaty bodies, the regional human rights organs (in the American, African, and European human rights systems); filing briefs and amicus briefs on international human rights law issues in US domestic courts; participating in universal jurisdiction claims in the US and other courts. The International Human Rights Clinic is a two semester commitment. Students earn 3 credits per semester for completing the clinic fieldwork. Fieldwork includes some combination of the following:     amicus briefs on human rights issues;     handling appeals in refugee and international human rights cases;     working on research, investigation and advocacy on international human rights issues, partnering with domestic and international non-governmental organizations on the Guantanamo cases, habeas cases, Alien Tort Claims Act and other cases;     working on research, advocacy and drafting submissions to the various treaty bodies at the UN and the Human Rights Council in Geneva;     Working in partnership with the Boston Center for Refugee Health and Human Rights (BCRHHR), focusing the health and human rights aspect of humanitarian cases.  In addition to the fieldwork, students must take 2 seminar courses: International Human Rights (fall; 3 credits); and Human Rights Lawyering (spring; 3 credits). The clinic fieldwork is supervised by Professor Susan Akram. Professor Akram also teaches the two required seminar classes. To apply: Applications will be available on-line following the Open House. Applications will be due April 19		

LAW JD 977: Health Care Reform &amp; the Constitution (S)
	This seminar will examine the complex web of federal and state regulations that form the center of American healthcare policy and American healthcare reform, including but not limited to the Obamacare statute's new laws and regulations. The goal for the semester will be to determine the best balance of federal and state governance and the best balance of legislative, executive, and judicial governance for healthcare policy. The first half of the course will center on the considerations that guide constitutional divisions of labor between our national and state governments (uniformity interests, political diversity, state experimentation, interstate competition, and regulatory success (among others)), and the second half of the course will center the considerations that guide constitutional divisions of labor among the three branches of the federal government (expertise, political accountability, agency capture, and individual justice (among others)). We will also discuss the role that private markets can, do, and should play in distributing scarce healthcare resources. Specific topics will include the Obamacare individual mandate and Medicaid expansion, public healthcare financing, private insurance regulation, healthcare quality controls, healthcare privacy rules, and bioethical questions like reproductive rights and the right to die.  ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 18 students.  RECOMMENDED COURSE: Health Law.  ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.**		

LAW JD 980: International Business Arbitration (S)
	Legal dimensions of international business dispute resolution through binding arbitration.  Treaty framework for determining validity of arbitration agreement and for recognition and enforcement of arbitral awards (New York Convention, Panama Convention, Washington Convention).  Comparative approach (French, English, Swiss, and U.S. legal systems) to the influence of national law on international arbitration.  UNCITRAL Model Law.  NAFTA Chapter 11 and bilateral investment treaties.  Special status of international commercial arbitration in national law.  Major arbitral institutions and rules, including ICC, LCIA, AAA and ICSID.  State contracts: Act of State and sovereign immunity.  Expropriation claims.  Delocalization and the influence of the arbitral seat.  Arbitral awards as a contribution to lex mercatoria.  ENROLLMENT LIMIT: 18 students.  GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.   		

LAW JD 981: Criminal Trial Advocacy
	THIS CLASS IS RESTRICTED to 2L students who have applied to and been accepted to start the Criminal Clinic in Spring 2015.  Trial Advocacy is a three credit course which will meet once a week for two hours. It will focus on courtroom skills in the context of criminal trial litigation. NOTE: The Criminal Clinical Program satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement. 		

LAW JD 982: Criminal Trial Practice I (C)
	THIS CLASS IS RESTRICTED to students who have applied to and been accepted into the Criminal Clinical Program.  The Fall section is restricted to 3Ls who will begin the program in Fall 2014.  The Spring 2015 section is restricted to 2L students who will begin the program in Spring 2015.  (Fall/3L section) Criminal Trial Practice I will meet in the first semester for two hours each week at the law school and will require students to be available one morning a week to be in court, from Monday through Thursday. The classroom component of this course will provide students an introduction to Massachusetts criminal procedure and basic instruction in lawyering skills such as case planning and investigation. Students in the program will be assigned to cases handled by senior members of the Prosecutor and Defender programs and will be expected to conduct tasks out of court such as legal research, fact investigation, witness interviews and preparation. One morning a week, these students will be in court observing and second seating the cases they have helped to prepare.  After the completion of this course, students will be assigned to the Prosecutor or Defender component of the clinic and must register for the appropriate section in the following semester.  (Spring/2L Section) Criminal Trial Practice I will meet in the second semester for three hours each week at the law school and will require students to be available one morning a week to be in court, from Monday through Thursday. The classroom component of this course will provide students an introduction to Massachusetts criminal procedure and basic instruction in lawyering skills such as case planning and investigation. Students in the program will be assigned to cases handled by senior members of the Prosecutor and Defender programs and will be expected to conduct tasks out of court such as legal research, fact investigation, witness interviews and preparation. One morning a week, these students will be in court observing and second seating the cases they have helped to prepare.   NOTE: The Criminal Clinical Program satisfies the upper-class professional skills requirement. 		

LAW JD 984: Professional Responsibility
	This course offers an approach to the lawyer's responsibilities to clients, the profession, and the public.  Topics addressed will be problems of disclosure, conflict of interest, advertising, adversary tactics, competence, attorney fees, and fiduciary duties.  NOTE:  This course satisfies the upper-class professional responsibility requirement.  GRADING NOTICE:  This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option.		

LAW JD 985: Corporate Finance
		This course covers the foundations of corporate finance. It starts with the concepts of time value of money, discounting, and present value. With that background it then considers the major financial decisions made by corporate managers. Topics include the valuation of financial assets and liabilities, criteria for making investment decisions, business valuation, relationships between risk and return, portfolio theory, market efficiency, capital structure choice, and cost of capital. GRADING NOTICE:  This class will not offer the CR/NC/H option.		

LAW JD 986: Legal Writing Fellows
	This class is restricted to students who have applied and been accepted as Writing Fellows for the First Year Writing Program.  Accepted students must register for both the fall and spring sections of the class.		

LAW JD 988: Mergers and Acquisitions
	This course will cover the principal legal, tax and business issues of mergers and acquisitions.  PREREQUISITE: Corporations or permission of instructor.		

LAW JD 989: Jessup Moot Court: Problem Solving in International Law
	This course is restricted to students who applied and were accepted as participants for the Jessup Moot Court competition.		

LAW JD 990: Feminist Jurisprudence (S)
	This seminar examines the evolution of feminist legal theory and its critique of the U.S. legal system and its norms.  It takes up various debates within feminist jurisprudence and examines its application to many contemporary issues of law and public policy.  The seminar provides an introduction to feminist jurisprudence and the various "generations" of such scholarship, as well as its relationship to other forms of legal theory.  Students will learn about several prominent strands of feminist legal theory, including liberal (or sameness), relational (or difference), radical (or dominance), Critical Race and anti-essentialist, postmodern, and "Third Wave."  We will consider the relationship between feminist jurisprudence and other forms of critical theory, such as Critical Race Theory, Queer Theory, and masculinities theory.  The seminar will assess debates within feminist jurisprudence concerning how best to understand gender, the ideals of sex equality and equal citizenship, questions of sameness and difference between women and men, and over whether, in view of differences among women based on class, ethnicity, race, sexual orientation and the like, it is desirable or possible to speak about "women" - or "men" - as a meaningful category.  Topics covered vary, but will likely include some of the following: legal regulation of sexuality, marriage, reproduction, and family; work/life conflict; employment discrimination (including sexual harassment); political leadership and representation; pornography; poverty and social welfare policy; violence against women; war and military service; international human rights; and the debate over multiculturalism and its impact on sex equality.  The format of the seminar is primarily discussion, with some lecturing. The written requirement may be satisfied either by a research paper (which may be used to satisfy the certification requirement) or three shorter papers on assigned questions (which may also be used to satisfy the certification requirement) or a take-home exam.  Students will also write several short reaction papers about the readings. OFFERING PATTERN: This class not offered every year.  Students are advised to take this into account when planning their long-term schedule.  **A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment. 		

LAW JD 991: International Human Rights (S)
	This is an introductory course to international human rights. The course will introduce students to the concepts of human rights, and the instruments that have codified and provided content to those concepts in the last sixty years. We will examine such questions as: Is there such a thing as human rights law? What standards, mechanisms, monitoring or enforcement machinery exists to make human rights concepts "legal"? Is there such a thing as universal consensus on human rights, or are the concepts relative from one region to the next? What, if any, constraints does human rights law place on the actions of sovereign states? How does the UN machinery operate in human rights law-making, monitoring and enforcement? What is the role of regional organizations, domestic courts and international entities in developing, promoting and implementing human rights norms? The course will take a contextualized approach using cases and current situations to address these questions primarily from a human rights perspective.  LIMITED WRITING REQUIREMENT OPTION: A limited number of students may be permitted to satisfy the upper-class writing requirement. GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.   		

LAW JD 994: American Indian Law
	This is a survey course of the laws and policies influencing American Indians in the United States today.  We will review the tortured history of the relationship between American Indians and the United States government and discuss the complex legal and policy issues surrounding civil and criminal jurisdiction and environmental, land use and economic development issues on and off the Reservation.  We will focus on the powers of the respective players in each of these fields, including local and state government, the federal government and tribal governments.  OFFERING PATTERN: This class is not offered every year.  Students are advised to take this into account when planning their long-term schedule.		

LAW JD 998: Health Care Transactions (S)
	This course is centered in the health care sector.  Partners, associates and general counsel from leading firms will discuss the deals they were personally involved in.  After an introduction to joint venture theory and the regulatory context of health care, everyone in the class examines 2 transactions: a physician recruiting agreement and an ambulatory surgery center JV.  The remainder of the course will involve 5 - 6 complex health care transactions, using actual documents from recent deals.  The transactions run the gamut from hospital M&amp;A to biotech licenses.  For the transaction you select, you will work in teams to analyze the deal, and will present your conclusions to the lawyers who closed it.  Your final project will be a negotiation or drafting assignment drawn from class materials.  The course is taught by Dan Roble (partner emeritus, Ropes &amp; Gray, Boston) and Jeff Heidt (partner at Verrill Dana, Boston), based on the course created by Professor Outterson.  PREREQUISITES:  The course does not have pre-requisites, but Corporations and Health Care are suggested; if you select the biotech transactions, IP and FDA are suggested.  NOTES:  This seminar satisfies the Upper-class Professional Skills requirement.  This seminar does not satisfy the Upper-class Writing Requirement.  **A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar.  Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment.		

LAW LE 650: Legal English 1
			

LAW LE 651: Academic Skills
			

LAW LE 652: Legal Cult
			

LAW LE 653: Legal English 2
			

LAW LE 654: Legal Writing
			

LAW LE 655: Persuasive Advo
			

LAW LE 656: Topics Amer LAW
			

LAW LE 657: Skills U.S.LAW
			

LAW TX 901: Federal Income Taxation I
	This course presents a general introduction to the fundamentals of federal income tax, emphasizing issues common to individual taxpayers (but not including the federal income tax aspects of the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of property, which are the subject of Federal Income Taxation II). Topics include an overview of the federal tax system; gross income, inclusions, and exclusions; identity of the proper taxpayer; concepts and categories of deductions; and basic timing principles. 		

LAW TX 902: Federal Income Taxation II
	Federal income tax aspects of the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of property. Topics include:   1.Realization and recognition,  2.Basis and amount realized,  3.The effects of debt (including its cancellation),  4.Depreciation and amortization,  5.At risk, not for profit, and passive activity loss deductibility limitations,  6.Capital gains and losses, related party transactions, quasi-capital assets and depreciation recapture, and  7.Deferred payment transactions (original issue discount and installment sales). Prerequisite or corequisite: Federal Income Taxation I. 		

LAW TX 904: Estate and Gift Taxation
	Principle issues of estate and gift taxation. Topics include the definition of taxable gifts and exclusions and deductions; determination of the taxable estate of a decedent including problems with lifetime transfers; valuation issues; deductions from the taxable estate with special emphasis on property passing to a spouse; and transfers with retained interests. Reference is made throughout to planning issues relating to estate and gift taxation and is designed to give both a requisite background for those intending additional study of estate planning and a comfortable familiarity with the subject for those going on to other tax fields.		

LAW TX 905: Pensions and Profit Sharing Plans
	Regulation of pension and profit sharing plans by the Internal Revenue Code and Employee Retirement Income Security Act, with particular attention to rules applicable to tax-qualified pension and profit-sharing plans, including rules governing the structure of benefits and taxation of contributions and distributions. 		

LAW TX 906: Tax Aspects of International Business
	Tax aspects of international business transactions, both "inbound" and "outbound", with particular attention to fiscal jurisdiction, the foreign tax credit, allocation of income among affiliated companies, treaties, anti-abuse measures aimed at tax haven operations, information reporting and foreign investment in U.S. securities and real estate. 		

LAW TX 907: Tax Practice &amp; Procedure
	Structure of the U.S. tax system; administration of the Internal Revenue Code by the Internal Revenue Service; ethics of tax practice and the regulation of tax practitioners; study of the administrative processing of tax returns; handling of audits, statutes of limitations, assessment of deficiencies and penalties, claims for refund, hearings before the Appeals Office, closing agreement, tax liens, tax collection procedures and civil and criminal aspects of tax fraud. Introduction to aspects of litigation in the Federal District Court, U.S. Court of Federal Claims, and U.S. Tax Court. 		

LAW TX 912: Independent Study
	An Independent Study Project provides an opportunity to earn one or two credits by completing an intensive research and writing project under close faculty supervision. Please contact the Graduate Tax Program office if you are interested in learning more about the requirements of an independent study.   		

LAW TX 913: Tax Accounting
	Examination of a broad range of subjects related to accounting methods and periods. Topics include principles of income recognition, prepaid income, claim of right, cash equivalency, and constructive receipt, special methods involving long-term contracts, depreciation, timing of deductions, estimated expenses, prepaid expense, expense versus capitalization, and conformity between tax and financial accounting.  		

LAW TX 914: Standards and Responsibilities in Tax Practice
	This course will consider the statutory, regulatory, and ethical standards and requirements applicable to tax practice and the tax lawyer's particular responsibilities in tax planning, preparation and advocacy. Students will be provided with an understanding of these requirements so that they may be recognized and applied in practice. There will be a focus on Circular 230, guidelines provided by the American Bar Association and tax return preparer rules.  		

LAW TX 917: Taxation of Financial Products: Policy and Theory
	This course explores the financial characteristics and income taxation of financial instruments, with an emphasis on both policy and theory. We start with the building blocks of debt and equity, move on to the "derivatives" level of options and notional principal contracts (swaps), and conclude with exotica such as currency products. In each instance we will first look at the financial characteristics of the security (after the fashion of an MBA offering in corporate finance), and then study the tax rules governing each class of instrument. Because discounting (net present value) and "pay off" diagrams are so central to an understanding of financial instruments, the course incorporates a rigorous study of these mathematical tools. Also, when studying the tax rules applicable to financial products, we focus on the fundamental building blocks of taxation -- amount, timing, character, and source -- to reveal underlying policy and theory tensions that go to the very root of our income taxation system. The course is intended to complement TX 949 Taxation of Financial Products: Principles and Application, and may be taken either prior or subsequent to that class or on a stand alone basis. Pre or Co-requisite: Federal Income Taxation I and II. 		

LAW TX 918: Life Cycle of a Business Venture
	The federal income tax laws significantly affect the way a business venture proceeds through the various stages of its life cycle. This course will explore the federal income tax aspects of:  i) choosing the proper form of entity (typically, C corporation, S corporation or LLC) to carry on a business, ii) forming the entity that will carry on the business and issuing equity interests (and rights to acquire equity interests) in the entity to founders and other service providers, iii)financing the entity with debt and equity, iv)  reporting the results of the entity's operations, v) purchasing and leasing assets, vi) buying out owners, vii) selling the business.  Co- and prerequisites: Federal Income Taxation I, Federal Income Taxation II, Introduction to Corporate Tax and Partnership Tax I. 		

LAW TX 920: Tax Aspects of Buying and Selling a Business
	A comprehensive course on how business owners can buy and sell businesses with a minimum tax cost and maximum after-tax return. The strategies for selling a business are often implemented from the moment the business entity is originally formed. The course will examine the crucial strategies, from choice of entity, to conducting ongoing operations, to the correct way to change or restructure existing C corporations, S corporations and other entities. The course will also examine the best way to structure a sale of a particular business, based on both the form of legal entity and on the specific facts in a case. For example, the course will compare a sale of stock to a sale of assets; will compare a sale for cash to a tax free transaction or part-cash, part-stock transaction; and compare the differences between a sale with immediate payment versus a possible installment sale.   Prerequisites: Federal Income Taxation I and Federal Income Taxation II.  		

LAW TX 921: RICs, REITs,and REMICs
	An overview of the federal income taxation of passthrough entities such as REITs, RICs, and REMICs. The taxation of partnerships and S corporations will also be examined to establish points of comparison. Topics include the integration of the federal corporate and individual income tax, and the various methods through which integration can be achieved.   Prerequisites: Introduction to Corporate Tax and Partnership Tax I. Notes: Limited enrollment. Final paper.  		

LAW TX 924: Corporate Reorganizations
	Income tax considerations relating to corporate tax free reorganizations including: review of the requirements for tax free treatment of acquisitive and time permitting divisive reorganizations; review of the tax treatment to all relevant parties to the transaction; consideration of special problems associated with certain types of reorganizations.   Prerequisite: Introduction to Corporate Tax. Note: Limited enrollment.  		

LAW TX 925: Executive Compensation
	Study of the tax and ERISA aspects of various forms of executive compensation. Topics include traditional fringe benefits and deferred compensation arrangements, incentive and non-qualified stock option and restricted stock plans, stock appreciation rights, excess benefit arrangements, rabbi trusts, golden parachute agreements, split-dollar insurance arrangements, and special issues for tax-exempt organizations. 		

LAW TX 926: Exempt Organizations
	This course examines the formation, organization, operation and tax aspects of tax-exempt entities including charitable organizations, private foundations and various other tax-exempt entities such as healthcare organizations, social clubs, business leagues, trade associations, fraternal organizations and arts organizations. The course will analyze the following topics: the rationale for federal tax-exempt status; general considerations in organizing tax-exempt entities, including selection of appropriate form and methods of obtaining and maintaining tax-exempt status; distinctions between non-profit and tax exempt status; income taxation of exempt organizations; structuring relationships with nonprofit affiliates and for profit business organizations; liability and responsibility of agents, officers and directors; prohibited transactions; the taxation of unrelated business taxable income; private benefit/private inurement; intermediate sanctions; fundraising; political activities; and considerations in acquisitions, mergers and liquidations of exempt organizations.   Pre or Co-Requisite: Federal Income Tax I   		

LAW TX 928: State and Local Taxation
	The course will expose students to the basic workings of the major state and local taxes, including personal income taxes, sales and use taxes, property taxes, and corporate taxes. We will also explore the special issues arising from the multi-jurisdictional nature of the state and local tax apparatus, and the principal aspects of federal statutory and constitutional law affecting state taxation. We will consider the application of basic state tax concepts to current issues facing state tax administrators and practitioners, including tax advantaged business structures, and some of the legislative responses to such issues.  		

LAW TX 930: Partnership Tax I
	Presents an overview of subchapter K and the federal income tax treatment of partnerships and other entities, such as limited liability companies;. Topics include tax classification of a partnership versus a corporation or trust; considerations in choice of entity;basic partnership accounting and capital accounts, partnership formation and acquisition of partnership interests for property or services; determination of basis;basic rules allocations of income and loss ; taxation of normal partnership operations; distributions of cash and property; transactions between partners and partnership, including sales of partnership interests.  		

LAW TX 932: Consolidated Corporations
	Survey of the U.S. income taxation of corporations filing consolidated tax returns. Provides a general understanding of the consolidated return regulations and enables students to identify tax issues involving corporations filing or wishing to file consolidated returns. The application of the consolidated return regulations to complex business transactions is considered.   Prerequisites: Federal Income Taxation I, Federal Income Taxation II, and Introduction to Corporate Tax, or equivalent experience.  		

LAW TX 933: Introduction to Corporate Tax
	Income tax considerations relating to transfers of assets and liabilities to a corporation (during incorporation and otherwise), non-liquidating distributions, stock redemptions, related party stock purchases and corporate liquidations. Includes an overview of the treatment of a corporate shareholder versus other shareholders.  		

LAW TX 934: Estate Planning- Advanced
	This course picks up where Professor Langa's estate planning course (TX 935) leaves off. We will survey several "cutting edge" estate planning techniques-techniques that permit the transfer of large amounts of wealth at little or no gift tax or estate tax cost. We will zero in on valuation rules that apply to the estate tax and gift tax; we will discuss what to look for in appraisals; we will examine, in depth, the current status of planning involving family partnerships and LLCs; we will examine the rules that apply to GRATs, installment sales to "defective" grantor trusts, and how to structure transfers using these techniques; we will review the biases built into the actuarial valuation rules that the Internal Revenue Service requires us to apply; we will examine the effects of the UPC, the Uniform Trust Code, and will consider "decanting"; we will discuss some of the psychological aspects of estate planning including issues presented by parents' fears of making their children too wealthy too soon; and we will discuss trust design and the choice of trustees. There is no final exam but students will be required to write a 10 -- 15 page term paper. In addition there will be several quizzes throughout the semester. Prerequisites are Professor Langa's estate planning course and an interest in the subject matter.		

LAW TX 935: Estate Planning
	This course will examine in depth the theoretical and practical aspects of a variety of estate planning strategies currently being used in the real world. The primary focus of the course will be on federal income, estate, gift, and generation skipping transfer tax issues which arise in the estate planning context, although other planning issues, including professional ethics, will also be considered. The course will use case studies of specific tax driven planning strategies, including grantor trusts, marital deduction trusts, post-mortem planning, and planning for incapacity.  		

LAW TX 936: Taxation of Bankruptcies and Workouts
	Study of the tax and opportunities arising in bankruptcy and nonbankruptcy workouts of individuals, partnerships, and corporations. Topics include cancellation of indebtedness income from the reduction or renegotiation of debt, gain or loss recognition on foreclosures and similar property transfers, restrictions on net operating loss carryovers, special tax consequences of the restructuring of partnership debt and equity, the taxation of the bankruptcy estate and its owners and creditors, and trust fund tax penalties on officers, directors, and other individuals.  Prerequisites or corequisites: Introduction to Corporate Tax and Partnership Tax I.  		

LAW TX 937: Taxation of Trusts and Fiduciaries
	Income tax consequences arising upon the death of a decedent and special income tax treatments of estates, trusts, and fiduciaries. Topics include determination of gross income and allocation between the decedent and the estate or trust; special problems with income in respect of a decedent; separate and conduit taxation of estates and trusts; allocation of tax attributes between an estate or trust and its beneficiaries; grantor trust rules, and other topics.   Prerequisite: Federal Income Taxation I.  		

LAW TX 939: International Tax II
	This course will examine in some detail two fundamental but most important areas of the U.S. taxation of U.S. corporations' foreign operations. This course is designed for those students who are interested in practicing in the international tax area or who are interested in exploring in considerable detail two on the Internal Revenue Code's more complex statutory regimes. This course will include an in-depth analysis of the rules relating to the foreign tax credit, including basic sources of income and allocations of deductions (particularly, interest expense), with emphasis on the determination of the deemed paid credit, the overall and separate limitations and the look-through and foreign loss rules. The second part will address in detail the anti-deferral provisions under Subpart F of the IRC, including the definition of U.S. shareholder and controlled foreign corporation, the determination of the various types of subpart F inclusions, and the effect of partnership and disregarded entities on the application of these rules. Notes: Limited enrollment. Grade based on a mid-term examination, a final examination, and class participation.   		

LAW TX 940: Partnership Tax II
	A continuation of Partnership Tax I, focusing on a more in depth study of complex areas of partnership taxation. Topics include allocation of liabilities, maintenance of capital accounts and special allocations of income and loss, allocations with respect to contributed property; complexities in partnership distributions such as disguised sales, distributions with respect to contributed property, mixing-bowl transactions and marketable securities and examination of anti-abuse regulations and judicial action on abusive transactions. This course will follow a problem approach with applications of complex concepts to real life situations.  Prerequisites: Federal Income Taxation I, Federal Income Taxation II, and Partnership Tax I. 		

LAW TX 944: Structuring Intellectual Property Ownership
	Intellectual Property is the engine for the modern world economy. This course will look at US and international tax strategies implemented by individuals and companies owning IP to minimize the tax costs and maximize the economic benefits. The course will examine the tax consequences, and appropriate strategies, for developing intellectual property, acquiring intellectual property from another party, transferring intellectual property rights in the most cast effective manner. The course will have a strong emphasis on international tax, including the effects of bilateral tax treaties, related party transaction rules (such as Code 482), U.S. rules governing transfer of intellectual property out of the United States (Code 367), cost sharing arrangements under Code 482, and other sophisticated transactional issues such as charitable contributions and intellectual property in order to claim contribution deductions.   Prerequisite: International Tax I: Taxation of International Trade Investment and Finance. Recommended: Taxation of Intellectual Property I.  		

LAW TX 949: Taxation of Financial Products: Principles and Application
	An in-depth study of the "nuts and bolts" of the taxation of financial products. The course, which is designed to provide a hands-on knowledge-base for current and aspiring financial-services tax professionals, will have three main components. It will begin with a comprehensive examination of the taxation of debt instruments, with an intensive review of original issue discount and related rules. Next, it will turn to the taxation of derivatives, including options, forwards, futures, swaps and variable annuities. It will conclude with a review of the federal government's response to perceived abuses involving financial instruments, covering areas including constructive sales, constructive ownership transactions and the tax shelter regulations. Some use of a financial calculator or spreadsheets will be required. The course is intended to complement TX 917 Taxation of Financial Products: Policy and Theory and may be taken either prior or subsequent to that class or on a stand-alone basis.		

LAW TX 950: Tax Aspects of Charitable Giving
	Charitable gift planning has long been a crucial component in wealth management and estate planning.  It remains an important factor in the "tool box" of estate and tax professionals.  While humanitarian commitments remain the primary motivating force behind private philanthropy, the tax benefits associated with charitable strategies and techniques have assumed greater importance as our system of taxation has grown increasingly complex.   This course will examine the federal tax implications (income tax, gift tax, estate and generation skipping transfer tax, and capital gains tax) of key strategies associated with charitable gift planning for incorporation into the overall estate plan. Topics covered will include types of charitable entities, requirements of a charitable gift, charitable alternatives (private foundations, donor advised funds and supporting organizations), split interest transfers (charitable remainder and lead trusts), bargain sales, gifts of complex assets, and testamentary transfers.  Case studies will be used to illustrate optimal intervivos and testamentary planning for creating flexibility while avoiding pitfalls. None. Recommended: Federal Income Taxation I, Federal Income Taxation II and Estate and Gift Taxation. 		

LAW TX 951: US Transfer Pricing
	This course undertakes a detailed examination of the US transfer pricing rules, policies and procedures.  It will only casually address issues in other jurisdictions- transfer pricing rules in strongly OECD jurisdictions like Canada, the United Kingdom and Australia will be considered only in a contrasting manner to provide context.  In addition, the transfer pricing rules in customs and those in the VAT (EU and elsewhere) will similarly be considered only where they provide contrast to the US rules.  		

LAW TX 953: Inbound International Taxation
	This course will cover the U.S. tax rules applicable to taxation of income from U.S. (and sometimes foreign) sources received by corporations and individuals that are non-residents of the United States. In some cases, such income will be derived from passive investments and be in the form of dividends, interest, rents, or royalties. In other cases, the income will arise from active business activities. The course will address the concept of residence and entity classification, the U.S. source of income rules, the U.S. withholding tax rules (including the obligations of withholding agents) with respect to non-business income, the types of activities that can generate a "trade or business" (tax nexus) in the U.S., the U.S. rules for determining income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business and thus taxable in the U.S., the branch profits tax, FIRPTA (foreign investment in U.S. real property) and the U.S. rules applicable to financing U.S. operations owned by non-U.S. taxpayers Finally, we will address the impact of tax treaties on the taxation of income of non-residents. This course will be of interest to students who will represent foreign resident taxpayers with economic operations in the United States.		

LAW TX 955: Taxation of Intellectual Property
	Intellectual property- from sophisticated aerospace technology to computer software and web applications to music and video rights- is one of the most important, challenging, and sophisticated areas of modern commerce. However, because the IP revolution has occurred in only the last 25 years, many of the traditional principles of income taxation are not easily applied to IP assets. This course will explore the tax aspects of creating intellectual property, buying intellectual property, exploiting IP through leases and licenses, and strategies for selling valuable IP rights with the best tax results. The course will also explore important international tax issues, including the so called "migration" of IP offshore, cost-sharing arrangements, and other mechanisms that seek to "locate" IP and the associated tax liabilities in tax-favorable jurisdictions. The course will teach the tax differences between copyrighting and patenting a software program, the right and wrong ways to license and sell a trademark, and the mechanisms for turning a "license" into a "sale" and thereby converting ordinary income into capitol gains. 		

LAW TX 958: International Estate Planning
	The course will cover international estate planning from two perspectives: (1) U.S. citizens residing outside of the U.S. or owning assets located outside of the U.S.; and (2) foreign citizens residing in the U.S. or transferring assets in or to the U.S. U.S. gift and estate tax laws applicable to both situations will be studied in depth in a practice-oriented manner. Planning techniques and vehicles utilized in international estate planning will be explored, in particular trusts and the special U.S. income tax rules applicable to foreign trusts with U.S. beneficiaries and off-shore U.S.-grantor trusts. The impact of non-U.S. transfer taxes and tax treaties will be considered, as well as non-tax foreign laws impacting on international estate planning. The course will also cover the U.S. tax and estate planning issues applicable to "mixed marriages" where one spouse is a U.S. citizen and the other is a non-U.S. citizen, and multi-jurisdiction situations of gifts or bequests from non-U.S. donors or decedents to U.S. beneficiaries. Finally, the course will also consider cultural and ethical issues peculiar to the area of international estate planning.  Prerequisite or corequisite: Estate and Gift Tax, Estate Planning  		

LAW TX 959: Making Tax Law
	The course explores how U.S. tax law is made in order to provide context and perspective for interpreting the various provisions of the tax law.  It examines how considerations of tax policy, tax politics and tax administration contribute to the development of law through the legislative process, the promulgation of regulations and other administrative guidance, and the negotiation and ratification of tax treaties, as well as interactions and judicial evaluations of all of the above.  In other words, the course explores what happens on the road to tax law and what causes those twists and turns.  It necessarily discusses issues of tax policy, but the principal focus is on process.  We will use traditional cases, legislative documents, and other materials.  Pre or corequisite: None		

LAW TX 961: Fed Income Tax
			

LAW TX 963: Corporate Tax
			

LAW TX 966: Tax Practice
			

LAW TX 968: Tax and Technology
	This course examines the convergence of technology solutions, in support of taxation, from two different angles: corporations and government. On one hand, corporations use technology applied to the many areas of tax, to increase efficiencies and reduce error rates caused by manual processes. In doing so, they reduce risk, audit exposure and potential bad publicity, as they want to display good corporate citizenship. On the other hand, governments in general and tax authorities in particular are using IT (Information Technology) structures and relational databases quite widely to set up processes and procedures to encourage compliance, including taxpayer assistance; as well as data processing, audit selection, enforcement and fraud detection. The course will also compare and contrast these movements in America with other countries, as US-headquartered companies expanding abroad face new realities, unfamiliar tax structures and increasingly complex regulatory environments; and legal and tax professionals must be prepared for these challenges. Rather than focus on technology per se, analyzing computer programming language and codes, the bias of this course is the real-life business perspective of technology when applied to taxation and fiscal policy.		

LAW TX 974: Gratuitous Transfer Taxation
	An analysis of the gift, estate and generation skipping transfer taxes and the income tax treatment of gifts and bequests using the problem method. Coverage of the fundamental principles underlying the income taxes and the transfer taxes and then how these principles have been codified in the Internal Revenue Code. How to draft language in wills and trusts that accomplish, not only the desired transfer tax and income tax savings, but also an individual's personal and financial objectives for the family.		

LAW XB 813: US Contract Law
	This course covers legal and equitable remedies for enforcing contracts, elements of assent, interpretation of contract terms, determining what promises are enforceable, tests for performance and breach, and defenses to contract enforcement.		

LAW XB 814: US &amp; Trans-border Securities Regulation
	This course analyzes key issues under the U.S. federal securities laws, principally the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, with respect to the offer and sale and trading of securities. It includes a study of what constitutes a security, the public offering process, mandatory disclosure requirements for public companies, exemptions from registration, and potential liabilities and sanctions.		

LAW XB 815: International Business Transactions &amp; Agreements
	IBTA covers the transactional approach to legal problems encountered in commercial and financial business ventures that cross national borders. Topics include form of doing business, including formation of contracts and the range of issues presented-such as choice of law, choice of forum, commercial terms, force majeure, sales, distribution and agency law, franchise, licensing arrangements, and foreign direct investments ; the operations of the institutions of the World Trade Organization; investment in free trade areas such as the European Union and NAFTA; and issues of transfer of intellectual property and international dispute resolution. Students will gain exposure to analyzing various international business agreements and documents including global joint venture agreements and privatization provisions, sales and letters of credit, distribution and franchise agreements, international development and investment agreements, letters of intent for mergers and acquisitions, and technology licensing agreements.		

LAW XB 816: US Corporate Law
	This course examines the legal structure and characteristics of US business corporations and LLCs, especially in Delaware, with a focus on issues that will interest international lawyers. Topics include the distribution of power between management and shareholders; the limitations on management powers imposed by state law fiduciary duties; rights of minority shareholders; shareholder derivative suits; and capital and voting structures. US federal Securities Law and Mergers &amp; Acquisitions are covered in other Executive LL.M. courses.		

LAW XB 817: US &amp; International Intellectual Property
	The U.S. and Intellectual Property Law course examines legal protection of inventions, creative expression and other kinds of information. This course will introduce students to patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets. Most of the course will cover American intellectual property law, but comparative and international issues will also be covered.		

LAW XB 818: US &amp; International Mergers &amp; Acquisitions
	This course will explore the various modes of business acquisition including statutory mergers, asset purchases, and stock purchases and, for each type of business combination, will examine (1) the strategic and practical advantages and disadvantages, (2) the statutory requirements and procedures, (3) the documentation required or suggested, and (4) the relevant case law. The course looks at the practical aspects of the business lawyer's role in structuring the transaction, in identifying, explaining and negotiating the business/legal terms, in negotiating the acquisition agreements, and in getting the deal done. The course materials will consist of traditional statutory and case materials, explanatory materials, and legal documents, such as letters of intent, confidentiality agreements, merger agreements, etc. The course will use U.S. materials (particularly the law of Delaware) as base materials, but will also consider trans-border transactions.		

LAW XB 819: International Arbitration
	The old maxim "where business goes, disputes soon follow" has renewed vitality in an age of globalization.  As cross-border commerce follows American business abroad, and offshore foreign investment flows into the U.S., the potential for clashes in the business expectations of the parties increases, particularly as the economy softens.  Dispute resolution thus becomes an almost inescapable component of today's private international commercial dispute process.  The focus of the course will be on international arbitration, from inception in the contractual drafting through the mechanics of the dispute resolution process to the enforcement stage, with some consideration of other alternative dispute resolution techniques.  The original case studies and related materials are largely drawn from actual practice.  This course is designed for corporate attorneys as well as litigators. 		

LAW XB 820: Corporate Finance with U.S. and International Reporting
	Corporate Finance and Accounting is concerned with understanding financial statements and reports. The objective is that students will be able to read and understand the four financial statements and the 10-k annual report. Emphasis is placed on understanding the nature and meaning of the reports, as well as the relationship to the underlying transactions. Other topics may include: basic accounting principles, US GAAP versus IFRS, financial statement analysis, the relationship of the financial statement information to covenant documents, and accounting gamesmanship. It will also include analysis and structuring of capital transactions, with emphasis on financial statement analysis, attributes of equity and debt securities and transactions which restructure existing corporate capitalizations. Transactions discussed will include an acquisition, an out-of-court debt restructuring and a negotiated reallocation of equity.		

LAW XB 821: Current Issues in U.S. Business Law Colloquium
	During the two-week residential periods of each session, our students participate in a luncheon workshop series focusing on a wide range of issues related to U.S. business law. Our guest speakers are prominent practitioners, experts and academics who provide an engaging and enriching pedagogical and networking experience for our students. A select number of spots are typically opened to LL.M. students in Boston University's American Law, Graduate Tax, or Banking Law programs.		

LAW XB 822: Managing Compliance Risks for International Business Networks
	Extraterritorial application of US laws -- particularly in the areas of anti-corruption and sanctions -- has exposed multinational businesses and their networks of foreign subsidiaries, agents and collaborators to heightened risk of civil and criminal liability. High-profile prosecutions and fines have underscored the potential cost of non-compliance and the need for enhanced due diligence and monitoring of international business relationships. This course examines recent developments in US law that impact compliance risks in international business operations, and explores potential tools for evaluating and managing those risks.		

LAW XB 823: Deals: The Legal Engineering Behind Corporate Transactions
	This course looks at how lawyers can, and do, add value to complex transactions and contracts, or deals. The course will identify and evaluate common issues that present contractual risks for corporate clients and examine how those risks can be resolved or mitigated by legal advisers, whether through structural or contractual mechanisms. Students will be introduced to a conceptual framework with which to analyze legal risks in business transactions including informational asymmetry, adverse selection, moral hazard, asset specificity and opportunism and contractual incentives. During the residency period students will be given the opportunity to apply those concepts during moderated negotiations of scenarios taken from real world transactions, and then will examine and evaluate the final contractual documentation from those transactions.		

LAW XB 951: U.S. Transfer Pricing
	This course undertakes a detailed examination of the US transfer pricing rules, policies and procedures. It will only casually address issues in other jurisdictions -- transfer pricing rules in strongly OECD jurisdictions like Canada, the United Kingdom and Australia will be considered only in a contrasting manner to provide context. In addition, the transfer pricing rules in customs and those in the VAT (EU and elsewhere) will similarly be considered only where they provide contrast to the US rules.		

LAW XB 961: Federal Income Tax
	This course presents an introduction to the fundamentals of federal income tax law, emphasizing issues common to individual taxpayers. Topics include an overview of the federal tax system; gross income, inclusions and exclusions; identity of the proper taxpayer; concepts and categories of deductions; basic timing principles; federal income tax aspects of the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of property; realization and recognition; basis and amount realized; the effects of debt (including its cancellation); depreciation and amortization; at risk, not for profit, and passive activity loss deductibility limitations; capital gains and losses, related party transactions, quasi-capital assets and depreciation recapture; and deferred payment transactions (original issue discount and installment sales).		

LAW XB 962: Intl. Tax
			

LAW XB 970: Environmental Law
	This course takes a hybrid approach to teaching environmental law. This course will: (1) provide an overview of some of the major environmental statutes in the United States; (2) address the variety of regulatory tools and concepts that can be used to prevent environmental harm, focusing on the proper match between regulatory tool and environmental harm; and (3) discuss the role of other disciplines (e.g., science) and alternative means (e.g., public awareness) to facilitate changes in environmental policy.		

LAW XB 971: Administrative Law  Administrative Law
	The goal of Administrative Law is to provide students with a working knowledge of the general principles of administrative law, a general knowledge of the workings of bureaucratic institutions, and an understanding of the critiques of government. It examines the implementation of legislative policy through administrative agencies, including the role of administrative agencies in the governmental process, rulemaking, adjudication, and judicial review of agency actions. The goal of this particular course is to provide a general introduction to administrative law and then emphasize how to advocate your position to government agencies using those principles.		

LAW XB 972: Energy Law and Policy in a Carbon-Constrained World
	The energy industry is both a key to the life that billions seek and our world's most significant source of pollution. Environmental problems are the most important constraint now faced by energy industries. This course examines the key issues in American energy policy (with references to global context), and searches for ways to resolve, or at least ease, the strains that that policy puts upon environmental sustainability.(pre-requisite for Energy Regulation and the Environment)		

LAW XB 973: Energy Regulation and the Environment
	Energy is the fundamental necessity of civilization and, indeed, of life itself. And, yet, we cannot repeal the Second Law of Thermodynamics, which teaches that in a closed system such as Planet Earth, the use of energy will gradually transform everything of value into a state of useless entropy. Fortunately, as global climate change acquaints us viscerally with this ineluctable reality and its grim implications, we have a legal and regulatory framework that can be pressed into service to address the entropy challenge without unnecessarily sacrificing public safety and welfare. This intermediate level course is intended to provide students with an intimate familiarity with that legal and regulatory framework. (pre-requisite: Energy Law &amp; Policy in a Carbon-Constrained World)  		

LAW XB 974: Alternative Fuels and Renewable Energy
	This survey course is built on the three major cornerstones of renewable energy development: technology, socioeconomics, and law and policy. It targets a diverse audience including aspiring and experienced energy and environmental professionals, public policy analysts, and attorneys venturing into the world of renewable energy. The course utilizes an interdisciplinary approach featuring learning materials from law, economics, sociology, environmental science, and engineering.		

LAW XB 975: Oil and Gas Development and the Environment
	Navigating the complex labyrinth of contemporary energy and environmental issues requires a firm understanding of legal and policy concepts of oil and gas development. This course examines the legal and regulatory framework of domestic and international upstream and downstream oil and gas activities. The course explores key domestic statutory and common law sources, as well as regulations. It also surveys selected international and comparative materials such as joint field development agreements and arbitral decisions. The course maintains an environmental perspective and examines several important case studies such as the proposed Keystone XL pipeline, hydraulic fracturing (fracking) activities in the Marcellus Shale, and Arctic offshore hydrocarbon development.		

LAW XB 976: Environmental Dispute Resolution
	This course explores the range of processes that are used to resolve environmental disputes with particular emphasis on consensual processes such as negotiation and mediation. Instruction will be based on readings, simulations, discussions and exercises of the theory of dispute resolution and environmental law. One aim of this course is to help students build the skills necessary to be effective negotiators and advocates in the environmental context.		

