           			. Introductory course in biological  visual neuroscience and computational  vision. Provides a survey of the psychophysical, neuroanatomical and   neurophysiological substrates of visual mechanisms underlying  perception of  visual motion, depth, objects, and space and of decision making mechanisms.   Discussion of theoretical, explanatory, paradigms for these visual mechanisms.  Topics addressed include psychophysics, methods from single cell recording  physiology and low field potentials (LFP),multimodal imaging and computational  modeling of various visual tasks and their modulation by attention. We will  briefly address learning mechanisms and their relationship to brain plasticity.  A term project is required for graduate credit.  4 cr.		

ENG BE 571: Introduction to Neuroengineering
	This course covers current and future neurotechnologies for analyzing the brain    and for treating neurological and psychiatric diseases. It focuses on the    biophysical, biochemical, anatomical principles governing the design of the    current neurotechnologies, with a goal of encouraging innovations of new    generation of therapies. Topics include basic microscopic and macroscopic    architecture of the brain, the fundamental properties of individual neurons and    ensemble neural networks, electrophysiology, DBS, TMS, various imaging methods,    optical neural control technologies, optogenetics, neuropharmacology, and    gene/stem-cell therapies. Discussions of related literatures and design projects    will be involved. Enrollment is limited to 30 students. The course is open to    MS, MEng, and PhD students, as well as qualified undergraduate seniors. This   course meets with BE 771. 4 cr.		

ENG BE 605: Molecular Bioengineering
           			Provides engineering perspectives on the building blocks of living cells and  materials for biotechnology. Focuses on origins and synthesis in life and the  laboratory, including biological pathways for synthesis of DNA, RNA and  proteins; transduction, transmission, storage and retrieval of biological  information by macromolecules; polymerase chain reaction, restriction enzymes,  DNA sequencing; energetics of protein folding and trafficking; mechanisms of  enzymatic catalysts and receptor-ligand binding; cooperative proteins, multi- protein complexes and control of metabolic pathways; generation, storage,  transmission and release of biomolecular energy; and methods for study and  manipulation of molecules which will include isolation, purification, detection,  chemical characterization, imaging and visualization of structure. 4 cr		

ENG BE 606: Quantitative Physiology for Engineers
           			Course in human physiology for biomedical engineering students. Fundamentals of  cellular and systems physiology, including the nervous , muscular,  cardiovascular, respiratory, renal, gastrointestinal, endocrine and immune  systems. Quantitative and engineering approaches will be applied to understanding  physiological concepts. 4 cr		

ENG BE 695: Advanced Biomedical Design and Development
	This two-semester 8-credit course is a required sequence for students enrolled  in the BME Master of Engineering program. Successfully completing the sequence  fulfills one technical and one leadership requirement towards completing their  Master of Engineering degree. During the first semester, students will qualify  for Medical Observer Status and the Boston Medical Center and project teams will  conduct formal Needs Finding protocols by observing current clinical challenges  first-hand under the guidance of senior members of the clinical community. Based  on these observations, students will compare alternative design strategies, and  select an optimum approach based on weighed clinical requirements for an  innovative design solution. During the second semester, project teams will  develop their designs, make multiple prototypes using the resources of the  Engineering Product Innovation Center. Formal Design Control, Life Cycle, Risk  Analysis, Project Management, and Intellectual Property Strategies will be  introduced. Using formal Product Develop Protocols, students will prepare a  detailed regulatory and implementation pathway analysis for completing the  commercialization process needed to eventually bring their innovations into  clinical practice. 8 credits over 2 semesters - must enroll for both semesters.		

ENG BE 700: Advanced Topics in Biomedical Engineering
           			Advanced study of a specific research topic in biomedical engineering. Intended  primarily for advanced graduate students. Variable cr.		

ENG BE 703: Numerical Methods and Modeling in Biomedical Engineering
           			This graduate course is an introduction to the computational tools most commonly  applied in biological and physiological research, with emphasis on the art of  using models, programming and simulation to reach useful conclusions and  insights. Specific topics include exact and iterative methods for the solution  of large systems, differentiation and interpolation numerical integration,  pseudorandomization, Monte Carlo methods and statistical bootstrap methods,  Fourier transform and spectral methods, and also finite difference methods for  the solution of ordinary and partial differential equations. Each weekly lecture  is accompanied by a computer lab in which the students will gain experience in  the use of the techniques under study. Interspersed with learning of methods  will be a variety of specific bioengineeering applications covering the range  from genes and molecules to cells, organs, and systems. 4 cr		

ENG BE 705: Single Molecule Approaches for Biophysics and Bioengineering - Fundamentals and  Applications
           			The emergence of single-molecule (SM) methods in biology and bioengineering in  the past decade have revolutionized the way scientists approach the molecular  biology of the cell. The ability to directly probe biomolecular process in real- time, in their native cellular environment, revealed the mechanism of  fundamental processes in biology with unprecedented detail and accuracy. As SM  methods are refined they are increasingly recruited by bioengineers to invent  the future platforms for molecular diagnostics and analytical detection. This  course covers experimental methods for investigating the molecular machinery of  a living cell in vitro and in live cells, and novel tools for sensing  biomolecules and their application in biotechnology. Fundamental principles  underlying fluorescence of single molecules, force measurements of biomolecules,  ion channel kinetics, and stochastic sensing, will be covered in the context of  relevant biological and biotechnological examples. There will be an emphasis on  fundamental physical concepts underlying these systems, coming from statistical  mechanics of soft matter. 4 cr. 		

ENG BE 707: Quantitative Studies of Excitable Cells
		Focuses on the properties of the membranes of nerve and muscle cells. Classical  models of resting potentials, action potentials, synaptic transmission, and  sensory receptors are treated. The structure and function of single ionic  channels are characterized in detail from patch-clamp recordings,  neuropharmacological studies, and molecular studies. Mechanisms of muscle  contraction and other forms of cellular motility are also covered. 4 cr		

ENG BE 710: Neural Plasticity and Perceptual Learning
           			This course explores the capacity of cortical sensory and motor maps in the  adult brain to change as a result of alterations in the effectiveness of the  input, direct damage, or practice. The lectures will describe and discuss (1)  the physiology and anatomy underlying adult dynamics; (2) psychophysical methods  and experimental paradigms that have been used to study cortical plasticity in  the early stages of the sensory and motor pathways; (3) evidence for perceptual  learning; and (4) biologically plausible computational models of learning. We  will discuss applications of functional neuroimaging to study perceptual  learning and restorative plasticity in the human brain. 4 cr		

ENG BE 726: Fundamentals of Biomaterials
           			Provides the chemistry and engineering skills needed to solve challenges in the  biomaterials and tissue engineering area, concentrating on the fundamental  principles in biomedical engineering, material science, and chemistry.  Covers  the structure and properties of hard materials (ceramics and metals) and soft  materials (polymers and hydrogels). Same as ME/MS 726. Students may not receive  credit for both. 4 cr  		

ENG BE 727: Principles and Applications of Tissue Engineering
           			Provides the chemistry and engineering skills needed to solve challenges in the  biomaterials and tissue engineering area, concentrating on cell-biomaterial  interactions, soft tissue mechanics and specific research topics.  Students will  write a NIH-style grant proposal on a specific research topic.  Same as ME/MS  727. Students may not receive credit for both. 4 cr		

ENG BE 745: Nanomedicine- Principles and Applications
           			The use of nanoscience and technology for biomedical problems has spawned a  field of applications ranging from nanoparticles for imaging and therapeutics,  to biosensors for disease diagnostics. Nanomedicine is a rapidly growing field  that exploits the novel properties of nanoscale materials and techniques to  rapidly advance our understanding of human biology and the practice of medicine.  This course focuses on the fundamental properties, synthesis and  characterization of nanomaterials, coupled with their applications in  nanomedicine, including: micro- and nano-particles for drug delivery and  imaging, microfluidics for in vitro diagnostics, nanomaterials and platforms for  biological applications. The biomedical applications include cancer,  cardiovascular disease, and infectious diseases. 4 cr 		

ENG BE 747: Advanced Signals and Systems Analysis for Biomedical Engineering
           			Introduction to advanced techniques for signals and systems analysis with  applications to problems in biomedical engineering research.  Time-domain and  frequency-domain analysis of multiple input, multiple output systems using the  fundamental matrix approach.  Hilbert transform relations; applications to head- related transfer functions.  Second-order characterization of stochastic  processes: power density spectra, cross-spectra, auto-and cross-correlation  functions.  Gaussian and Poisson processes.  Models of neural firing patterns.   Effects of linear systems on spectra and correlation functions.  Applications to  models of the peripheral auditory system.  Optimum processing applications.   Applications to psychophysical modeling.  Introduction to wavelets and wavelet  transforms.  Wavelet filter banks and wavelet signal processing. 4 cr		

ENG BE 765: Biomedical Optics and Biophotonics
	This course surveys the applications of optical science and engineering to a  variety of biomedical problems, with emphasis on optical and photonics  technologies that enable real, minimally-invasive clinical applications. The  course teaches only those aspects of biology itself that are necessary to  understand the purpose of the application. The first weeks introduce the optical  properties of tissue, and following lectures cover a range of topics in three  general areas: 1) Optical spectroscopy applied to diagnosis of cancer and other  tissue diseases; 2) Photon migration and optical imaging of subsurface  structures in tissue; and 3) Laser-tissue interactions and other applications of  light for therapeutic purposes. In addition to formal lectures, recent  publications from the literature will be selected as illustrative of various  topical areas, and for each publication one student will be assigned to prepare  an informal presentation (with overhead slides or PowerPoint) reviewing for the  class the underlying principles of that paper and outlining the research  results. Same as ENG EC 765; students may not receive credit for both. 4 cr		

ENG BE 771: Introduction to Neuroengineering
	This course covers existing and future neurotechnologies for analyzing brain   signals and for treating neurological and psychiatric diseases. It focuses on   the biophysical, biochemical, anatomical principles governing the design of   current neurotechnologies, with a goal of encouraging innovations of a new   generation of therapies. Topics include basic microscopic and macroscopic   architecture of the brain, the fundamental properties of individual neurons and   ensemble neural networks, electrophysiology, DBS, TMS, various imaging methods,   optical neural control technologies, optogenetics, neuropharmacology, gene   therapy, and stem-cell therapy. Discussions of related literatures and design   projects will be involved. This course is open to graduate students only and it  meets with BE571. 4 cr. 		

ENG BE 773: Advanced Optical Microscopy and Biological Imaging
           			This course will present a rigorous and detailed overview of the theory of  optical microscopy starting from basic notions in light propagation and covering  advanced concepts in imaging theory such as Fourier optics and partial  coherence. Topics will include basic geometric optics, photometry, diffraction,  optical transfer functions, phase contrast microscopy, 3D imaging theory, basic  scattering and fluorescence theory, imaging in turbid media, confocal  microscopy, optical coherence tomography (OCT), holographic microscopy,  fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS), fluorescence resonant energy  transfer (FRET), and nonlinear-optics based techniques such as two-photon  excited fluorescence (TPEF) and second-harmonic generation (SHG) microscopy.  Biological applications such as calcium and membrane-potential imaging will be  discussed. A background in optics is preferable. A background in signals and  analysis is indispensable. In particular, the student should be comfortable with  Fourier transforms, complex analysis, and transfer functions. Meets with  ENGEC773.  Students may not receive credit for both. 4 cr		

ENG BE 777: Computational Genomics
           			A case-study approach to current topics in computational genomics. Mathematical  and engineering tools for analyzing genomic data are reviewed. The relationships  between sequence, structure, and function in complex biological networks are  studied using quantitative modeling. Whole genome analysis is performed.  Completion of a series of projects emphasizing real-life data, integrated  approaches, practical applications, hands-on analysis, and collaboration. Course  projects aim at improving current approaches and involve C and/or PERL  programming to interface with existing software packages. The course will be  offered in a computer laboratory equipped with one laptop per student. 4 cr		

ENG BE 788: Soft Tissue Biomechanics
           			This course will introduce students to the mechanics of soft biological tissue.   In particular, the response of the heart, vasculature, and tissue scaffolds to  mechanical loads from the perspective of nonlinear solid mechanics will be  studied. Constitutive models for hyperelastic materials will be adapted to  biomaterials to handle mechanical characteristics such as nonlinearity,  viscoelasticity, and orthotropy.  Basic experimental methods, and anatomy and  physiology of particular tissue types will also be introduced. Emphasis is  placed on integrating the basic analytical, experimental, and computational  methods for a  more complete understanding of the underlying mechanobiology.   Meets with ENG ME788.  Students may not receive credit for both.  4 cr.		

ENG BE 790: Biomedical Engineering Seminar
           			Discussion of current topics in biomedical engineering. Students are expected to read assigned journal articles and to participate actively in weekly discussion meetings. Meetings organized around presentations by invited guests of their research problems, strategy, and technique.  		

