ENG BE 200: Introduction to Probability
           			An introductory course designed for sophomore engineering students that   introduces the fundamentals of probability and statistics without the use of   transforms. Coverage includes  descriptive statistics, basics of probability   theory, multiple random variables, expectation, Markov chains, and statistical   testing. Computer simulations of probabilistic systems are included. Examples   are taken from engineering systems. This course cannot be taken for credit in   addition to ENG EC 381. 2.0 cr		

ENG BE 209: Principles of Molecular Cell Biology and Biotechnology
           			Introduction to the molecular, physical and computational principles of cell   function in the context of cutting-edge applications in bioengineering and   medicine. Biological concepts include: molecular building blocks, energetics,   transport, metabolism, nucleic acids, gene expression and genetics. Applications   include bioenergy, synthetic biology, the human genome project, and gene circuit   engineering.  Labs will teach fundamental techniques of molecular biology   including a multi-week module where students build and quantify bacterial gene   expression system. Labs emphasize the experimental, problem solving, and   analytical skills required in modern engineering and research.  4.0 cr		

ENG BE 401: Signals and Systems in Biomedical Engineering
           			Signals and systems with an emphasis on application to biomedical problems.  Laplace transforms, Fourier series, Fourier integral, convolution and the  response of linear systems, frequency response, and Bode diagrams. Introduction  to communication systems, multiplexing, amplitude modulation, and sampling  theorem. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to ENG SC 401. 4 cr		

ENG BE 402: Control Systems in Biomedical Engineering
           			Mathematical analysis of dynamic and linear feedback control systems. Emphasis  on application to physiological systems, physiological transport,  pharmacokinetics, glucose/insulin control, and respiratory control. Performance  criteria. Root locus, Nyquist, and other stability criteria. State space  analysis with state variable feedback control. Design and compensation. Cannot  be taken for credit in addition to ENG EC402. 4 cr		

ENG BE 419: Principles of Continuum Mechanics and Transport
           			This is an introductory course that presents the subjects of solid mechanics,    fluid mechanics and transport phenomena in a unified form using the conservation    principles (laws of physics) and the mathematical framework of vectors, tensors    and matrices.  The basic concepts of strain, stress, conservation of mass,    momenta and energy, constitutive laws, and applications to solid mechanics,    fluid mechanics, diffusion processes and heat transfer will be presented.    Illustrative examples from engineering and applied sciences will be provided    with each topic.  The course will prepare students for advanced courses in    traditional fields (elasticity, fluid mechanics, viscoelasticity,    poroelasticity, rheology, transport phenomena) as well as emerging fields    (nanotechnology, biotechnology, computational mechanics). 4 cr 		

ENG BE 420: Introduction to Solid Biomechanics
           			Introductory course to mechanics of solid elastic continua. Basics of vector and  tensor algebra and calculus; kinematics of deformation, stress analysis,  constitutive equations, finite elasticity; linear elasticity; virtual work; the  Ritz approximation. In addition to the classical Hookean elasticity, finite  deformation theory is presented to describe mechanical behavior of biological  soft tissues and cells. Illustrative examples from tissue and cell biomechanics.  Design elements will be included in problems and examples. 4 cr		

ENG BE 428: Device Diagnostics and Design
           			This course is focused on the fundamentals of modern biomedical device and  diagnostics design. Students will design and build an alpha prototype in this  project based course. The course is aimed at undergraduates who have completed  most of the engineering core coursework (second semester sophomore and above).  Mechanical and Biomedical Engineering concepts are introduced and elaborated on  in the context of specific applications. Topics include: materials classes;  materials selection for medical devices and diagnostics; elementary mechanics of  materials topics in the context of design for manufacturing (stress, strain,  toughness, torsion, bending, buckling); fracture, fatigue and yielding; failure  analysis; biocompatibility; regulatory requirements as they pertain to design,  manufacturing and marketing; technology assessment strategies; and engineering  ethics. Several case studies of successful and unsuccessful biomedical device  design are introduced and discussed throughout the course. 4 cr		

ENG BE 435: Transport Phenomena in Living Systems
           			Biological systems operate at multiple length scales and all scales depend on   internal and external transport of molecules, ions, fluids and heat. this course   is designed to introduce the fundamentals of biological transport and to apply   these fundamentals in understanding physiological processes involving fluid,   mass and heat transfer. Students will learn the fundamental conservation   principles and constitutive laws that govern heat, mass and momentum transport   processes and systems as well as the constitutive properties that are   encountered in typical biological problems. Transport is also critical to the   development and proper functioning of biological and medical instruments and   devices, which will also be discussed. Biomedical examples will include   applications in development of the heart-lung machine, estimation of time of   death in postmortem cases, burn injuries through hot water, respiratory flow in   smokers lungs, etc. 4 cr		

ENG BE 436: Fundamentals of Fluid Mechanics
           			Conservation of mass, momentum, and energy in static and moving fluids.     Constitutive relations for Newtonian and non-Newtonian fluids.  Viscous flows,    with application to microfluidics, flow in porous materials, lubrication, and    other areas of biomedical interest.  Scaling analysis.  Inertial effects,    including boundary layers and unsteady flows.  Introduction to computational    fluid dynamics. 4 cr		

ENG BE 437: Nanometer Scale Processes in Living Systems
           			The world at the nanometer-scale is full of dynamic phenomena that are vastly  different than those encountered at the macro scale. Biological processes that  are of particular contemporary interest, such as cell differentiation, are  stimulated by the activity and interaction of biomolecules at the nanoscale.   Thus, an understanding of the physics and engineering in such systems is a vital  component toward overcoming an immense array of challenging problems in the  biological and medical sciences. This course will focus particularly on a  conceptual and mechanistic understanding of technologies that permit the study  of events at the nanometer scale, including scanning probe microscopes  (including SEM and AFM) and optical methods such as fluorescence microscopy and  related techniques (including single particle tracking, FRET, FCS). Finally, two  laboratory components in optical trap microscopy and microrheology will be the  cornerstone of the course. These two labs will each develop over the course of 5  weeks each, thus providing an experiential aspect to lab learning that will  require the willingness to take intellectual risks and teamwork. These "hands  on" laboratory modules will uniquely prepare students to face the open-ended,  teamwork-oriented problems. 4 cr		

ENG BE 451: Directed Study in Biomedical Engineering
	Individual study of a topic in biomedical engineering not covered in a regularly  scheduled course. A faculty member must agree to supervise the study before  registration. Term paper and/or written examination. Variable cr.		

ENG BE 465: Biomedical Engineering Senior Project
           			Selection of project and project supervisor must be approved by course  instructor. Project is in an area of biomedical engineering, such as biomedical  instrumentation, biosensors, tissue engineering, biological signal processing,  biological modeling and simulation, clinical imaging or informational systems,  etc.Projects will be conducted by teams of two or three students, and projects  must include significant design experience. Research of background, planning and  initial work on senior design project. Guidance in performing and presenting (in  written and oral form) a technical project proposal. Skills in proposal writing,  oral presentation techniques. Formal proposal must be approved by technical  advisor. 2 cr		

ENG BE 466: Biomedical Engineering Senior Project
           			Completion of project in an area of biomedical engineering. Expanded training in  technical project presentation techniques. Includes writing of progress reports,  abstracts, final reports. Course culminates with an oral presentation at annual  Senior Project Conference. Written final report must be approved by the faculty.  4 cr		

ENG BE 467: Product Design and Innovation in Biomedical Engineering
           			A combined academic and industry taught course educating students on project definition, and on the design, development, and technology transfer of potential biomedical products in the context of the student's major capstone project. Students will learn from faculty and industry lecturers the best practices for medical device development including: product development via design and process control, intellectual property and innovation in biomedical engineering including patents, and clinical regulatory issues including clinical trial design. School of Management faculty will emphasize marketing, technology transfer and entrepreneurship for bioengineering products. Case study examples will be provided. ENG BE 465 must be taken concurrently.  2 cr.		

ENG BE 491: Biomedical Measurements I
	Laboratory course designed to develop experimental and modeling skills.  Simulation of physical and physiological systems, experimental determination of  transfer functions, filtering properties of systems, transducer instrumentation,  muscle dynamics, and spectral analysis. Emphasis is on comparison of experimental  data with theoretical expectation. 2 cr		

ENG BE 492: Biomedical Measurements II
	Laboratory course designed to develop research skills including data acquisition  with instruments used in physiology and biology such as optical microscopes,  ultrasound transducers, as well as air pressure and flow transducers.  Emphasis  is on data acquisition, quantitative analysis, physiological interpretation and  written presentation in the form of professional quality reports. 2 cr		

ENG BE 500: Special Topics in Biomedical Engineering
		Coverage of a specific topic in biomedical engineering. One topic covered in  depth each semester offered. Subject matter varies from year to year. 4 cr		

ENG BE 503: Numerical Methods and Modeling in Biomedical Engineering
	This graduate course is an introduction to the computational tools most commonly  applied in biological and physiological research, with emphasis on the art of  using models, programming and simulation to reach useful conclusions and  insights. Specific topics include exact and iterative methods for the solution  of large systems, differentiation and interpolation numerical integration,  pseudorandomization, Monte Carlo methods and statistical bootstrap methods,  Fourier transform and spectral methods, and also finite difference methods for  the solution of ordinary and partial differential equations. Each weekly lecture  is accompanied by a computer lab in which the students will gain experience in  the use of the techniques under study. Interspersed with learning of methods  will be a variety of specific bioengineeering applications covering the range  from genes and molecules to cells, organs, and systems. 4 cr		

ENG BE 504: Polymers and Soft Materials
           			An introduction to soft matter for students with background in materials  science, chemistry and physics. This course covers general aspects of structure,  properties, and performance polymers, polymer solutions and gels. Emphasis is on  chain behavior, local chemical interactions and mechanical behavior across  multiple size scales. Topics include forces, energies, kinetics in material  synthesis, growth and transformation; methods for preparing synthetic materials;  formation assembly, phase behavior, and molecular ordering of synthetic soft  materials; structure, function, and phase transitions; multiscale models of  polymer mechanical behavior; techniques for characterizing the structure, phase  and dynamics of soft materials; application of soft materials in biotechnology  and nanotechnology. Meets with ENG ME 504 and ENG MS 504; students may not  receive credit for both. 4 cr		

ENG BE 505: Molecular Bioengineering I
           			Provides engineering perspectives on the building blocks of living cells and  materials for biotechnology. Focuses on origins and synthesis in life and the  laboratory, including biological pathways for sythesis of DNA, RNA and proteins;  transduction, transmission, storage and retrieval of biological informatin by  macromoleclues; polyerase chain reaction, restriction enzymes, DNA sequencing;  energetics of protein folding and trafficking; mechanisms of enzymatic catalysts  and receptor-ligand binding; cooperative proteins, multi-protein complexes and  control of metabolic pathways; generation, storage, transmission and release of  biomolecular energy; and methods for study and manipulation of molecules which  will include isolation, purification, detection, chemical characterization,  imaging and visualization of structure. 4 cr		

