           			Introduction to computational materials science.  Multi-scale simulation methods; electronic structure, atomistic, micro-structure, continuum, and mathematical analysis methods; rate processes and rare events.  Materials defect theory; modeling of crystal defects, solid micro-structures, fluids, polymers, and bio-polymers.  Materials scaling theory: phase transition, dimensionality, and localization.  Perspectives on predictive materials design.  Same as ENGME508; students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG MS 523: Mechanics of Biomaterials
           			. Covers the chemical composition, physical structure, and mechanical behavior of engineering materials and the tissues they sometimes replace. Study of materials classes; materials selection; deformation of an elastic solid; yield and fracture; fundamentals of viscoelastic phenomena such as creep, stress relaxation, stress rupture, mechanical damping, impact; effects of chemical composition and structure on mechanical properties; methods of chemical property evaluation. Fracture and fatigue. Influences of plastics fabrication methods on mechanical properties. Emphasis on recent research techniques and results. Discussion of practical matters in medical device design including regulatory approvals, sterilization, packaging and quality control. Students will complete a semester-long design project. Same as ENG ME 523 and ENG MS 523; students can only receive credit for one of these courses. 4 cr.		

ENG MS 524: Skeletal Tissue Mechanics
           			The course is structured around classical topics in mechanics of materials and their application to study of the mechanical behavior of skeletal tissues, whole bones, bone-implant systems, and diarthroidal joints.  Topics include:  mechanical behavior of tissues, (anisotropy, viscoelasticity, fracture and fatigue) with emphasis on the role of the microstructure of these tissues; structural properties of whole bones and implants (composite and asymmetric bean theories); and mechanical function of joints (contact mechanics, lubrication, and wear).  Emphasis is placed on using experimental data to test and to develop theoretical models, as well as on using the knowledge gained to address common health related problems related to aging, disease, and injury.  Meets with ENGME524 and ENGBE524. Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG MS 526: Simulation of Physical Processes
           			Modern simulation methods are covered for describing and analyzing the behavior   of realistic nonlinear systems that occur in the engineering and science   disciplines. By developing and applying such methods and tools, much deeper   understanding, insight, and control of novel technologies can be gained, thereby   often greatly aiding technology development, and sometimes providing the   leverage to turn a novel technology into a practical reality. Advanced numerical  methods are covered for attacking nonlinear partial differential equations. Key  aspects of the finite element method. Extensive use is made of the modern  computational tools Maple and Scientific Workplace. Examples including problems  in micro- and nanoelectronics, bioengineering, material science, photonics, and  physics are introduced and related to sensing instrumentation and control.   Meets with ENGME526. Students may not receive credit  for both. 4 cr. On Demand 		

ENG MS 527: Transport Phenomena in Materials Processing
           			Introduction to momentum, heat and mass transport phenomena occurring in various processes.  Whereas transport phenomena underlie many processes in engineering, agriculture, meteorology, physiology, biology, analytical chemistry, materials science, pharmacy and other areas, they are key to specific applications in diverse areas such as materials processing, green manufacturing of primary materials, biological membranes, fuel cell engineering, synthesis of clean fuels.  This course covers three closely related transport phenomena: momentum transfer (fluid flow), energy transfer (heat flow) and mass transfer (diffusion).  The mathematical underpinnings of all three transport phenomena are closely related and the differential equations governing them are frequently quite similar.  Since in many situations the three transport phenomena occur together, they are presented and studied together in this course. Meets with ENGME27.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG MS 530: Introduction to Micro- and Nano-mechanics of Solids
           			Mechanics and physics of solids at the nanometer scale: introductory graduate level course for students with background in undergraduate engineering mechanics (or solid state physics) and mathematics.  Review of continuum solid mechanics fundamentals.  Introduction to dislocation theory.  Continuum elastic theory of dislocations.  Mechanics of thin films.  Review of fundamentals of solid state physics.  Electron motion in a periodic potential.  Derivative of bulk material properties from free-electron and free-atom models.  Phonons.  Introduction to atomistic computational methods. Meets with ENGME530.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG MS 532: Atomic Structures and Dislocations in Materials
           			Relates mechanical behavior of crystalline materials to processes occurring at microscopic and/or atomic levels. Topics covered include structure of materials and their determination by X-ray diffraction; dislocations and their relationship to plastic deformation and strength of materials; fracture and creep. Meets with ENGME532.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG MS 534: Materials Technology for Microelectronics
           			This course deals with the materials issues in microelectronics processing. Fundamental materials science concepts of bonding, electronic structure, crystal structure, defects, diffusion and phase diagrams are applied to key processing steps in microelectronics technology; including single crystal growth, lithography, thermal oxidation of Si, dopant diffusion, ion implantation, thin film deposition, etching and interconnect technology; as well as widely used microelectronics simulation software such as SUPREM. Materials challenges in emerging directions in micro and nanoelectronics, including silicon on insulator technology, Si-Ge strained layers, and quantum dots will also be addressed. 4 cr. summer and either sem.		

ENG MS 535: Green Manufacturing
           			Provides a systems view of the manufacturing process that aims to efficiently use energy, water, and raw materials to minimize air and water pollution and generation of waste per unit of the manufactured product. Specifically, the course will discuss methods to maximize yield and minimize waste effluents in processes, ways to devise treatment strategies for handling manufacturing wastes, innovative ways to decrease energy consumption in manufacturing, by-product use and product recycling, and policies that encourage green manufacturing. Meets with ENGME535.  Students may not receive credit for both. 4 cr.		

ENG MS 539: Introduction to Materials Science and Engineering
	MS539 is an introductory gradute level course in Materials Science and Engineering. It is intended for students who wish to be introduced to the basics of why materials behave the way they do. It covers topics such as atomic bonding, why and how solids form and their structures, phase transitions, phase diagrams, electronic/magnetic/optical/thermal properties of materials, materials processing and how it influences their properties, ceramics, polymers, ferrous and non-ferrous metals, glasses and societal concern in the use and re-use of materials.  This is a 4 credit course.		

ENG MS 545: Electrochemistry of Fuel Cells and Batteries
           			Electrochemistry of high temperature fuel cells, batteries and ceramic gas separation membranes. Types, advantages and disadvantages of fuel cells currently being developed by the power generation industry, and the electrochemical underpinnings of fuel cell operation.  Thermodynamics of fuel cells, electrode kinetics and mass transport in porous electrodes.  Measurements techniques (dc polarization, ac impedance spectroscopy and blocking electrodes) used extensively in fuel cell research and development.  Operation of batteries and ceramic gas separation membranes. Current manufacturing techniques used in fuel cell industry. Meets with ENGME545.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG MS 549: Structure and Function of the Extracellular Matrix
	This is an introductory course dealing with the detailed structure of the basic    units of the extracellular matrix including collagen, elastin, microfibrils and    proteoglycans as well as the functional properties of these molecules. The focus    is mostly on how the structure of these components determine the functional    properties such as elasticity at different scales from molecule to fibrils to    organ level behavior. The biological role of these components and their    interaction with cells is also covered. Interaction ofenzymes and the matrix in    the presence of mechanical forces is discussed. Mathematical modeling is applied    at various length scales of the extracellular matrix that provides quantitative    understanding of the structure and function relationship. Special topics include    how diseases affect extracellular matrix in the lung, cartilage and vasculature.    The relevance of the properties of native extracellular matrix for tissue    engineering is also discussed. Meets with ME 549 and BE 549. 4 cr.		

ENG MS 555: MEMS: Fabrication and Materials
	This course will explore the world of microelectromechanical devices and systems (MEMS). This requires an awareness of design, fabrication, and material issues involved in MEMS. The material will be covered through a combination of lectures, case studies, and individual homework assignments. The course will cover design, fabrication technologies, material properties, structural mechanics, basic sensing and actuation principles, packaging, and MEMS markets and applications. The course will emphasize MEMS fabrication and materials.  Meets with ENGME555.  Students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG MS 573: Solar Energy Systems
           			This course is designed for first-year graduate and senior undergraduate students from engineering disciplines and is intended to educate students in the design and application of solar energy technology. It will focus on fundamentals of solar energy conversion, solar cells, optical engineering, photoelectrochemical cells, thermoelectric generators, and energy storage and distribution systems.  The course covers solar energy insolation and global energy needs, current trends in photovoltaic energy engineering, solar cell material science, design and installation of solar panels for residential and industrial applications and connections to the national grid and cost analysis of the overall system. In addition, basic manufacturing processes for the production of solar panels, environmental impacts, and the related system engineering aspects will be included to provide a comprehensive state-of-the art approach to solar energy utilization. Meets with ENG EC573; students may not take credit for both.  4 cr.  		

ENG MS 574: Physics of Semiconductor Materials
           			This course teaches the relevent notions of quantum mechanics and solid state physics necessary to understand the operation and the design of modern semiconductor devices. Specifically, this course focuses on the engineering aspects of solid state physics that are important to study the electrical and optical properties of semiconductor materials and devices. Particular emphasis is placed on the analysis of the electronic structure of semiconductor bulk systems and low-dimensional structures, the study of the carrier transport properties and the calculation of the optical response that are relevant to the design and optimization of electronics and photonics semiconductor devices. The students will learn to apply the quantum mechanical formalism to the solution of basic engineering device problems (quantum wells, wires, and dots, 2D electron gas) and to perform numerical calculation on more complex systems (band structure calculation of bulk and low dimensional systems).		

ENG MS 577: Electronic Optical and Magnetic Properties of Materials
           			This course in intended to develop an in depth knowledge of solid state concepts that are important for students in the areas of material science and  electrical engineering. Specifically,  this course  focuses on the study of different apsect of solid state physics necessary to study technologically relevant crytalline and amorphous systems.  Particular enphasis is placed on the study of the crystal structure, crystal diffraction and the related techniques used as diagnostic tools; the electronic, thermal, optical and magnetic properties of material systems important for electronics and photonics device applications. Furthermore the course will also consider the theory of superconductivity, the chemistry aspcts of solid state materials and will provide an introduction to solid state biophysics. This course complements EC 574 (Physics of semiconductor material) and EC575 (semiconductor devices) with its focus on technologically relevant structural, optical, thermal and magnetic material properties. Meets with ENG EC 577. Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG MS 580: Theory of Elasticity
           			An introduction to the general theory of solid deformation; small deformation emphasized. Topics include: Cartesian tensors, indicial notation. Introduction to continuum mechanics: deformation of continuous media, deformation gradient, strain definitions. Stress, Cauchy's postulate, Cauchy and Piola-Kirchhoff stress tensors. Balance laws. Constitutive equations, strain energy and Green's postulate. Linear Elasticity: Two dimensional problems, Airy stress function, in plane loading of strips, St. Venant's principle, complex variable methods, Goursat-Muskhelishvili representation, stress concentrations around holes and cracks. Three dimensional problems, Kelvin's solution, the Boussinesq problem, Hertzian contact, Eshelby's energy-momentum tensor. Meets with ENGME580.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG MS 582: Mechanical Behavior of Materials
           			Fundamental concepts of modern materials behavior and materials engineering. Emphasis on analytical and numerical methods for predicting material properties and behavior, as well as some discussion of the relationships between solid structure and material properties. Topics include: constitutive relations, fracture, fatigue, plasticity, creep, damping, impact, and deformation. Elastic, plastic, and viscous behavior. Some discussion of the effects of processing--thermodynamics, kinetics--may be addressed. Specific examples from ceramics, metals, polymers, and composites is given, with the emphasis changing for each offering. Meets with ENGME582.  Students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG MS 700: Advanced Special Topics
           			Advanced study of a specific research topic in materials science and engineering.  Intended primarily for advanced graduate students. On Demand.  Var cr.		

ENG MS 718: Adv Top Nanotec
		This course description is currently under construction.		

