           			This course allows PhD students to take part in a laboratory rotation system.  During these rotations, students become familiar with research activity within  departmental laboratories that are of interest to them. These rotations help  students identify the laboratory in which they will perform their dissertation  research. Postbachelor's PhD students must complete three rotations: one in  their first semester of matriculation, and two in their second semester. Post- master's PhD students must complete a minimum of two rotations, one of which  must be in their first semester of matriculation. Normally each rotation will  last up to seven weeks. Variable cr.		

ENG BE 792: Critical Literature Review
           			Peer-reviewed publications in the area of biomedical engineering will be  critically evaluated.  Scientific ethics and the process of review and  publication of manuscripts will be discussed.  The classes will be a mix of  didactic information and group discussion.  Methodological issues covered will  include study design, techniques used, and interpretation of research findings.   Students completing this course will understand the principles underlying  preparation and publication of scientific manuscripts and will be able to apply  these principles as they read the scientific literature. 2 cr		

ENG BE 801: Teaching Practicum
           			This course cannot be used to meet the structured course requirements. Practical  teaching experience for an assigned course, includes some combination of running  discussion sections, managing laboratory sections, providing some lectures,  preparing homework and solution sets, exams, and grading. Attend  lectures/seminars on best teaching practices. 4 cr		

ENG BE 802: Teaching Practicum II
	Practical teaching experience. 4 cr 		

ENG BE 900: Research
           			Participation in a research project under the direction of a faculty advisor.  Includes research leading to the development of an MS thesis proposal or PhD  prospectus, as well as the work necessary to generate an original MS thesis or  PhD dissertation. Variable cr		

ENG BE 951: Independent Study
           			A course of reading under the direction of a faculty advisor covering subject  matter not available in a lecture course. Final report or examination normally  required. Variable cr		

ENG BF 527: Applications in Bioinformatics
           			The field of bioinformatics is concerned with the management and analysis of large biological datasets (such as the human genome) for the purpose of improving our understanding of complex living systems.  This course introduces graduate students and upper-level undergraduate students to the core problems in bioinformatics, along with the databases and tools that have been developed to study them.  Computer labs emphasize the acquisition of practical bioinformatics skills for use in students research.  Familiarity with basic molecular biology is a prerequisite; no prior programming knowledge is assumed. Specific topics will include the analysis of biological sequences, structures, and networks.  E-mail questions to the instructors, Joshua Campbell (camp@bu.edu) and Jignesh Parikh (jparikh@bu.edu). 		

ENG BF 541: Bioinformatics Internship
	Internships provide the bridge between classroom/laboratory study and ?real-world? employment. Each student must complete an internship with a minimum of 400 hours of on-the-job experience (e.g., 10 weeks full-time work in the summer). The format is very flexible, and part-time internships running concurrently with classes or employment are acceptable. Students must consult with their academic advisor to assess the suitability of a proposed internship.  		

ENG BF 571: Dynamics and Evolution of Biological Networks
		The course focuses on mathematical models for exploring the organization, dynamics, and evolution of biochemical and genetic networks.  Topics include: introductions to metabolic and genetic networks, deterministic and stochastic kinetics of biochemical pathways; genome-scale models of metabolic reaction fluxes; models of regulatory networks; modular architecture of biological networks.		

ENG BF 690: Bioinformatics Challenge Project
	Project course for first year Bioinformatics graduate students.  Open-ended problems will involve bioinformatics as a key element, typically requiring the use of large data sets and computational analysis to make predictions about molecular function, molecular interactions, regulation, etc.  Projects will be proposed by the Bioinformatics program faculty and selected by student in teams of three.  The end result will be a set of predictions, some of which can be validated retrospectively using data available through online sources and some of which will require experimental validation.  During the last 2 months of the academic year, teams will design feasible validation experiments in consultation with the experimental faculty. 		

ENG BF 752: LAW&amp;Eth Bio Sci
	This course description is currently under construction.		

ENG BF 768: Biological Database Analysis
	Describes relational data models and database management systems. Teaches the   theories and techniques of constructing relational databases with emphasis on   those aspects needed for various biological data. Introduces the relational   database query language SQL. Describes methods for ensuring data consistency and   data retrieval efficiency. Object-oriented programming is introduced primarily   as an implementation aid for constructing, loading, and accessing databases.   Utilizes web-based programming tools to implement user access to databases.   Emphasis will be on solving problems associated with large and complex data   sets. Course includes a final project implementing a database using real data   from a local biology/medical school lab.		

ENG BF 778: Physical Chemistry for Systems Biology
	This course introduces students to quantitative modeling in bioinformatics and systems biology.  We begin with basic principles of statistical thermodynamics, chemical kinetics, with selected applications in biomolecular systems.  Next we describe molecular driving forces in biology, and computation with biomolecular structures.  Finally we discuss quantitative models of biomolecular networks, and design principles of biological circuits.		

ENG BF 810: Phd Lab Rotat'N
	This course description is currently under construction.		

ENG BF 821: Bioinfo Gradsem
	This course description is currently under construction.		

ENG EC 311: Introduction to Logic Design
           			Introduction to hardware building blocks used in digital computers. Boolean algebra, combinatorial and sequential circuits: analysis and design. Adders, multipliers, decoders, encoders, multiplexors. Programmable logic devices: read-only memory, programmable arrays, Verilog. Counters and registers. Includes lab. 4 cr, 		

ENG EC 327: Introduction to Software Engineering
           			This course aims to introduce students to software design, programming techniques, data structures, and software engineering principles. The course is structured bottom up, beginning with basic hardware followed by an understanding of machine language that controls the hardware and the assembly language that organizes that control. It then proceeds through fundamental elements of functional programming languages, using C as the case example, and continues with the principles of object-oriented programming, as principally embodied in C++ but also its daughter languages Java, C#, and objective C. The course will conclude with an introduction to elementary data structures and algorithmic analysis. Throughout, the course develops core competencies in software engineering, including programming style, optimization, debugging, compilation, and program management, utilizing a variety of Integrated Development Environments and operating systems. 4 cr.		

ENG EC 330: Applied Algorithms for Engineers
           			Introduction to the general concept of algorithms. Efficiency and run-time of algorithms. Graph algorithms, priority queues, search trees.  Various approaches to design of algorithms and data structures, together with their applications to numerical and non-numerical problems. 4 cr.		

ENG EC 381: Probability Theory in Electrical and Computer Engineering
           			Introduction to modeling uncertainty in electrical and computer systems. Experiments, models, and probabilities.  Discrete and continuous random variables. Reliability models for circuits. Probability distributions. Moments and expectations. Random vectors. Functions of random variables. Sums of random variables and limit theorems. Signal detection and estimation. Basic stochastic processes. Discrete-time Markov chains. State-diagrams. Applications to statistical modeling and interpretation of experimental data in computer, communication, and optical systems. 4cr,		

ENG EC 401: Signals and Systems
           			Cannot be taken for credit in addition to ENG BE 401. Continuous-time and discrete-time signals and systems. Convolution sum, convolution integral. Linearity, time-invariance, causality, and stability of systems. Frequency domain analysis of signals and systems. Filtering, sampling, and modulation. Laplace transform, z-transform, pole-zero plots. Linear feedback systems. Includes lab. 4 cr.		

