	Seminar course on a topic of current interest in aerospace and mechanical engineering. 		

ENG ME 501: Dynamic System Theory
           			Introduction to analytical concepts and examples of dynamic systems and control.  Mathematical description and state space formation of dynamic systems; modeling, controllability, and observability.  Eigenvector and transform analysis of linear systems including canonical forms.  Performance specifications.  State feedback:  pole placement and the linear quadratic regulator.  Introduction to MIMO design and system identification using computer tools and laboratory experiments. Meets with ENG EC 501 and ENG SE 501; students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG ME 502: Invention: Technology Creation, Protection, and Commercialization
           			This course provides students with the knowledge and tools necessary to create, protect, and commercialize engineering and scientific intellectual assets. Students will first make use of creativity tools to attack posed engineering problems, then turn to means for protecting their solutions. Rapidly growing areas that are affecting nearly all businesses (e.g., software and the internet) as well as "high-tech" areas including microelectronics, communications, and bioenegineereing will be emphasized. Extensive patent searches and analysis will be carried out to develop skills for quickly ascertaining the protected technical content of patents, and for recognizing what intellectual property (IP) should be and can be protected. Legal aspects for protecting creative ideas will be studied at a level appropriate for engineers to interact easily and smoothly during their technical careers with IP lawyers. Various business models for the commercialization of intellectual assets will be analyzed. Extensive class exercises and projects will explore in depth all three of these important areas of IP, with emphasis on key contributions during engineering and scientific research and development activities.  		

ENG ME 503: Kinetic Processes in Materials
           			Kinetics of mass transport, continuum and atomistic approaches, chemical diffusion; kinetics of chemical reactions, kinetics of adsorption and evaporation; nucleation and growth; solidification; spinodal decomposition; coarsening; martensitic transformations; order-disorder reactions; point defects and their relation to transport kinetics. Meets with ENGMS503; students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG ME 505: Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics
           			The laws of thermodynamics; general formulation and applications to mechanical, electromagnetic and electromechanical systems; thermodynamics of solutions, phase diagrams; thermodynamics of interfaces, adsorption; defect equilibrium in crystals; statistical thermodynamics, including ensembles, gases, crystal lattices, and phase transitions.  Same as ENGME505; students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG ME 507: Process Modeling and Control
           			An introduction to modeling and control as applied to industrial unit processes providing the basis for process development and improvement.  Major themes include an integrated treatment of modeling multi-domain physical systems (electrical, mechanical, fluid, thermal), application of classical control techniques, and system design.  Topics include modeling techniques, analysis of linear dynamics, control fundamentals in the time and frequency domain, and actuator selection and control structure design.  Examples drawn from a variety of manufacturing processes and case studies. Meets with ENGMS507.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG ME 508: Computational Methods in Materials Science
           			Introduction to computational materials science.  Multi-scale simulation methods; electronic structure, atomistic, micro-structure, continuum, and mathematical analysis methods; rate processes and rare events.  Materials defect theory; modeling of crystal defects, solid micro-structures, fluids, polymers, and bio-polymers.  Materials scaling theory: phase transition, dimensionality, and localization.  Perspectives on predictive materials design.  Same as ENGMS508; students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG ME 510: Production Systems Analysis
           			Operations research and dynamic systems methods applied in modeling, analysis, and control of production systems. Inventory analysis and control for single and multi-item systems based on deterministic and stochastic demand models. Demand forecasting. Supply chain management. Machine, flow shop and job shop scheduling, project scheduling with PERT and CPM. Production control methods: MRP, MRP-II, Just-in-Time, and Kanban. 		

ENG ME 515: Vibration of Complex Mechanical Systems
           			Introductory course in mechanical vibrations for graduate students and for undergraduate students with substantial mastery of core undergraduate subjects in mechanics and mathematics. Course includes an elementary introduction to applicable concepts in linear algebra. Potential and kinetic energy functions of single- and multi-degree-of-freedom systems. Matrix formulations of forced vibrations of linear systems. Natural frequencies, resonance, and forced vibration response. Natural modes and mode shapes. Rayleigh's principle. Rayleigh's dissipation function, transient and forced responses of damped vibrations. Random excitation of vibrations. Impedance matrix. O'Hara-Cunniff theorem, modal masses, modal analysis. Vibrations of simple continuous systems such as strings, beams, rods, and torsional shafts. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to ENG ME 441. 		

ENG ME 516: Statistical Mechanical Concepts in Engineering
           			Statistical mechanics uses probability theory to establish a connection between the microscopic properties of individual molecules and macroscopic properties of matter, such as temperature, pressure, entropy, heat capacity and viscosity. Review of thermodynamics. Fundamentals of probability theory. Phase space dynamics. Ensembles and averages. Statistical formulation of  photons (Light), phonons (lattice vibrations in solids), electrons in a metals and classical gases. Classical transport. Introduction to non-equilibrium phenomena. 4 cr. either sem.		

ENG ME 517: Product Development
           			Dynamics of converting ideas into marketable products. Choosing products and defining their specifications to achieve competitive advantage. The product development process is decomposed and its elements are examined critically in the context of actual case studies; risk evaluation, concurrent engineering, and impact of new product decisions on the factory. A step-by-step methodology for new product development is derived. 		

ENG ME 518: Product Quality
           			Introduction to statistical methods for design, control and improvement of quality. Includes Statistical Process and Quality Control (SPC &amp; SQC) and Acceptance Sampling. Extensive coverage of Design of Experiments (DOE) with applications to designing quality into products and to process and product performance improvement. Also covers Robust Design and Taguchi's method. Introduction to modern approaches to management of quality (TQM, Six Sigma). 		

ENG ME 519: Theory of Heat Transfer
           			Analytical, numerical, and physical aspects of heat transfer phenomena, with emphasis on nondimensionalization and scaling. Mathematical treatment of steady and unsteady conduction, including finite difference methods. Forced and natural convection in internal and external flows. Thermal radiation and multimode heat transfer. Melting and solidification. Applications to aerospace heat transfer, energy systems, manufacturing, and biological heat transfer. 		

ENG ME 520: Acoustics I
           			Introduction to wave propagation and sound. General concepts such as quantitative measures of sound, plane waves, and acoustic energy density and intensity. Derivation of wave equation. Sound radiation from vibrating bodies. Basic ray-acoustic concepts: reflection, refraction, diffraction and scattering of acoustic waves. Other topics may include flow-induced sound, Helmholtz resonators, sound transmission through ducts and mufflers, room acoustics, and absorption and attenuation of sound waves in fluids. 		

ENG ME 521: Continuum Mechanics
           			The main goal of this course is to present a unified, mathematically rigorous approach to two classical branches of mechanics: the mechanics of fluids and the mechanics of solids.  Topics will include kinematics, stress analysis, balance laws (mass, momentum, and energy), the entropy inequality, and constitutive equations in the framework of Cartesian vectors and tensors. Emphasis will be placed on mechanical principles that apply to all materials by using the unifying mathematical framework of Cartesian vectors and tensors.  Illustrative examples from biology and physiology will be used to describe basic concepts in continuum mechanics. The course will end at the point from which specialized courses devoted to problems in fluid mechanics (e.g. biotransport) and solid mechanics (e.g. cellular biomechanics) could logically proceed; Same as ENGBE521. Students may not receive credit for both.  		

ENG ME 524: Skeletal Tissue Mechanics
           			The course is structured around classical topics in mechanics of materials and their application to study of the mechanical behavior of skeletal tissues, whole bones, bone-implant systems, and diarthroidal joints.  Topics include:  mechanical behavior of tissues, (anisotropy, viscoelasticity, fracture and fatigue) with emphasis on the role of the microstructure of these tissues; structural properties of whole bones and implants (composite and asymmetric bean theories); and mechanical function of joints (contact mechanics, lubrication, and wear).  Emphasis is placed on using experimental data to test and to develop theoretical models, as well as on using the knowledge gained to address common health related problems related to aging, disease, and injury.  Meets with ENGMS524 and ENGBE524. Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG ME 525: Technology Ventures
           			An introduction to the formation and management of technology-based enterprises for engineers and scientists. Modules include opportunity recognition and evaluation, gathering financial and human resources, and managing and harvesting ventures. Goals include an understanding of basic start-up finance and accounting, writing business plans, presenting venture ideas to industry experts, and venture leadership skills. Students become familiar with fundamental technical and engineering issues in a wide variety of high-tech industries, especially information technology, life sciences, biotechnology and telecommunications. Case studies, lectures, workshops, and projects are utilized. 4 cr. 		

ENG ME 526: Simul Phys Proc
           			This course description is currently under construction.		

ENG ME 527: Transport Phenomena in Materials Processing
           			Introduction to momentum, heat and mass transport phenomena occurring in various processes.  Whereas transport phenomena underlie many processes in engineering, agriculture, meteorology, physiology, biology, analytical chemistry, materials science, pharmacy and other areas, they are key to specific applications in diverse areas such as materials processing, green manufacturing of primary materials, biological membranes, fuel cell engineering, synthesis of clean fuels.  This course covers three closely related transport phenomena: momentum transfer (fluid flow), energy transfer (heat flow) and mass transfer (diffusion).  The mathematical underpinnings of all three transport phenomena are closely related and the differential equations governing them are frequently quite similar.  Since in many situations the three transport phenomena occur together, they are presented and studied together in this course. Meets with ENGMS527.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG ME 528: Biological Physics
           			This course offers an introduction to biological physics and consists of four blocks. 1)Thermodynamics and statistical physics with a particular focus on Einstein's approach. 2)Physics of (Bio) polymer networks. 3) Nano and Microfluidics and life and low Reynold numbers. 4) Interface physics and Biomembranes.		

