           			Introduction to the mammalian auditory system from a systems prospective. The  class follows how sound propagates into the ear, how mechanical energy is  transformed into a neural code, how that code is transformed through the  mammalian auditory pathway from the cochlea to the cortex, and how auditory  sensation and perception are related to this chain of neural processing. Anatomy  and physiology will cover the structure and function of the middle ear, cochlea,  brainstem, midbrain, thalamus, and cortex. Perceptual topics include basic  sensitivity, spatial hearing, pitch perception, auditory scene analysis,  attention, and speech perception. Implications for hearing impairment and  prosthetic hearing devices will be covered. Associated discussion sessions cover  recent research findings from general-interest, high-impact publications. 4 cr		

ENG BE 511: Biomedical Instrumentation
           			Physiological signals, origin of biopotentials (ECG, EMG, EEG), biomedical transducers and electrodes. Biomedical signal detection, amplifications and filtering. Analog front-ends of biomedical instruments. Electrical safety in medical environment. Laboratory experiments supplement lectures. 		

ENG BE 513: Biological and Environmental Acoustics
           			Application of acoustics to biological and environmental research.  Introduction to physical acoustics with examples from actual terrestrial and marine environments.  The use of sound by animals for communication and echolocation.  Application of acoustics to conservation biology.		

ENG BE 515: Introduction to Medical Imaging
           			Methods of obtaining useful images of the interior of the body using X-rays,  ultrasound, and radionuclides. Image formation and display. Projection  radiography. Radiation detectors. Conventional and computerized tomography.  Nuclear imaging. Automating diagnosis and non-invasive testing. Radiation safety.  4 cr  		

ENG BE 517: Optical Microscopy of Biological Materials
	In this course students will learn the practice and the underlying theory of  imaging with a focus on state-of-the-art live cell microscopy.  Students will  have the opportunity to use laser scanning confocal as well as widefield and  near-field imaging to address experimental questions related to ion fluxes in  cells, protein dynamics and association, and will use phase and interference  techniques to enhance the detection of low contrast biological material.   Exploration and discussion of detector technology, signals and signal  processing, spectral separation methods and physical mechanisms used to  determine protein associations and protein diffusion in cells are integrated  throughout the course. Students will be assigned weekly lab reports, a mid-term  and a final project consisting of a paper and an oral presentation on a current  research topic involving optical microscopy. 4 cr             		

ENG BE 519: Speech Signal Processing
           			Speech (naturally spoken) is the main mode of communication between humans.  Speech technology aims at providing the means for speech-controlled man-machine  interaction. The goal of this course is to provide the basic concepts and  theories of speech production, speech perception and speech signal processing.  The course is organized in a manner that builds a strong foundation of basics  first, and then concentrates on a range of signal processing methods for  representing and processing the speech signal. 4 cr		

ENG BE 521: Continuum Mechanics
           			The main goal of this course is to present a unified, mathematically rigorous  approach to two classical branches of mechanics:  the mechanics of fluids and  the mechanics of solids.  Topics will include kinematics, stress analysis,  balance laws (mass, momentum, and energy), the entropy inequality, and  constitutive equations in the framework of Cartesian vectors and tensors.   Emphasis will be placed on mechanical principles that apply to all materials by  using the unifying mathematical framework of Cartesian vectors and tensors.   Illustrative examples from biology and physiology will be used to describe basic  concepts in continuum mechanics.  The course will end at the point from which  specialized courses devoted to problems in fluid mechanics (e.g. biotransport)  and solid mechanics (e.g. cellular biomechanics) could logically proceed.  Same  as ENG ME 521; students may not receive credit for both. 4 cr    		

ENG BE 524: Skeletal Tissue Mechanics
           			The course is structured around classical topics in mechanics of materials and  their application to study of the mechanical behavior of skeletal tissues, whole  bones, bone-implant systems, and diarthroidal joints.  Topics include:   mechanical behavior of tissues, (anisotropy, viscoelasticity, fracture and  fatigue) with emphasis on the role of the microstructure of these tissues;  structural properties of whole bones and implants (composite and asymmetric bean  theories); and mechanical function of joints (contact mechanics, lubrication,  and wear).  Emphasis is placed on using experimental data to test and to develop  theoretical models, as well as on using the knowledge gained to address common  health related problems related to aging, disease, and injury.  Same as ENGME524  and ENGMS524. Students may not receive credit for both. 4 cr		

ENG BE 526: Fundamentals of Biomaterials
           			Provides the chemistry and engineering skills needed to solve challenges in the  biomaterials and tissue engineering area, concentrating on the fundamental  principles in biomedical engineering, material science, and chemistry.  Covers  the structure and properties of hard materials (ceramics and metals) and soft  materials (polymers, colloids, and hydrogels). Meets with BE726 lectures. Note  that the laboratory portion is not offered in BE 526.  4 cr		

ENG BE 527: Principles and Applications of Tissue Engineering
           			Provides the chemistry and engineering skills needed to solve challenges in the  biomaterials and tissue engineering area, concentrating on cell-biomaterial  interactions, biomaterial-host response, and inflammation. Covers the  rheological properties of polymers and gels as well as fatigue and fracture of  materials. Specific applications of tissue engineering. Meets with BE 727  lectures. Note that the laboratory portion is not offered in BE 527. 4 cr		

ENG BE 533: Biorheology
           			An introductory course emphasizing those rheological properties (such as  elasticity, viscoelasticity, poroelasticity, plasticity, and viscoplasticity)  that often characterize solid biological tissues and cells. 4 cr		

ENG BE 535: Cell Mechanics
           			Provides an introduction to the physical and chemical basis for the mechanical  properties and activities of living cells considered from an engineering  perspective. The instructional approach emphasizes in-depth study of a limited  number of cases and relies heavily on selected readings from the literature.  Topics studied include cell adhesion and elasticity of red cells as well as  phenomena in which active motility is involved (e.g., the first cleavage  division of the sea urchin egg, the contraction of skeletal muscle, the crawling  motility of fibroblastic cells, and the beating of flagella). Lectures and  assignments emphasize the role of quantitative theory and mathematical models in  elucidating the molecular basis of physiological observations in these diverse  areas. 4 cr. 		

ENG BE 549: Structure and Function of the Extracellular Matrix
	This is an introductory course dealing with the detailed structure of the basic    units of the extracellular matrix including collagen, elastin, microfibrils and    proteoglycans as well as the functional properties of these molecules. The focus    is mostly on how the structure of these components determine the functional    properties such as elasticity at different scales from molecule to fibrils to    organ level behavior. The biological role of these components and their    interaction with cells is also covered. Interaction of enzymes and the matrix in    the presence of mechanical forces is discussed. Mathematical modeling is applied    at various length scales of the extracellular matrix that provides quantitative    understanding of the structure and function relationship. Special topics include    how diseases affect extracellular matrix in the lung, cartilage and vasculature.    The relevance of the properties of native extracellular matrix for tissue    engineering is also discussed. Meets with MS 549 and ME 549. 4 cr. 		

ENG BE 560: Biomolecular Architecture
           			Provides an introduction to the molecular building blocks and the structure of  three major components of the living cells: the nucleic acids, the phospho- lipids membrane, and the proteins. The nucleic acids, DNA and RNA, linear  information storing structure as well as their three-dimensional structure are  covered in relationship to their function. This includes an introduction to  information and coding theory. The analysis tools used in pattern identification  representation and functional association are introduced and used to discuss the  patterns characteristic of DNA and protein structure and biochemical function.  The problems and current approaches to predicting protein structure including  those using homology, energy minimization, and modeling are introduced. The  future implications of our expanding biomolecular knowledge and of rational drug  design are also discussed. 4 cr		

ENG BE 562: Computational Biology: Genomes, Networks, Evolution
           			The algorithmic and machine learning foundations of computational biology,  combining theory with practice are covered. Principles of algorithm design and  core methods in computational biology, and an introduction of important problems  in computational biology. Hands on experience analyzing large-scale biological  data sets. 4 cr		

ENG BE 564: Biophysics of Large Molecules
           			The course considers the fundamental concepts of physical and mathematical  description of polyatomic molecules and macromolecules on the basis of quantum  and statistical mechanics. Special emphasis is given to molecular spectroscopy,  the interaction of polyatomic molecules with electromagnetic radiation (visual  light, ultraviolet and infrared radiation). Physics of macromolecules (or  polymers) is treated in detail. Numerous biomedical applications of the  fundamental concepts are considered including photosyntheses, molecular  mechanism of vision, DNA damage under UV irradiation, structure of major  biological molecules (proteins and nucleic acids). 4 cr  		

ENG BE 566: DNA Structure and Function
           			Physical structure and properties of DNA. The physical principles of the major  experimental methods to study DNA are explained, among them: X-ray analysis,  NMR, optical methods (absorption, circular dichroism, fluorescence),  centrifugation, gel electrophoresis, chemical and enzymatic probing. Different  theoretical models of DNA are presented, among them the melting (helix-coil)  model, the polyelectrolyte model, the elastic-rod model, and the topological  model. Theoretical approaches to treat the models, (e.g., the Monte Carlo  method) are covered. Special emphasis is placed on DNA topology and DNA unusual  structures and their biological significance. Major structural features of RNA  are considered in parallel with DNA. The main principles of DNA-protein  interaction are presented. the role of DNA and RNA structure in most fundamental  biological proceses, replication, transcription, recombination, reparation, and  translation is considered. 4 cr		

ENG BE 567: Nonlinear Systems in Biomedical Engineering
           			Introduction to nonlinear dynamical systems in biomedical engineering. Qualitative, analytical and computational techniques. Stability, bifurcations, oscillations, multistability, hysteresis, multiple time-scales, chaos. Introduction to experimental data analysis and control techniques. Applications discussed include population dynamics, biochemical systems, genetic circuits, neural oscillators, etc. 4 cr. 		

ENG BE 568: Systems Biology of Human Disease
	This course will train students to apply or develop computational network,  modeling, and machine learning concepts to probe into the systems biology of  disease. The aim of this course is to cover general concepts in biological  computing that provide the foundation of thinking computationally about  anomalous behavior in biological systems that cause diseases. The course also  aims to teach students to work in teams and develop the skills to plan and  coordinate a scientific project. The course will cover computational frameworks,  such as biological networks (including metabolic, regulatory, and signal  transduction networks), micro array analysis, proteomic analysis, next  generation sequencing, imaging, machine learning, probabilistic inference,  genetics, pathway analysis, network and graph theory, and other technologies to  medical diseases initially focusing on clincal problems such as cancer,  diabetes, inflammation, and aging. The course is aimed at seniors and graduate  students in biomedical engineering or bioinformatics; however, students from  other disciplines ranging from medicine to physics or computer science can  attend the class with some prerequisites. 4 cr.  		

ENG BE 569: Next Generation Sequencing
           			The advent of high throughput sequencing is virtually changing biology and  medicine. The technology enables us to catalog the entire functional parts list  of living organisms from bacteria to human, develop and validate regulatory  networks for controlling gene expression in systems biology models and develop  novel biomarkers for personalized medicine that guide pharmacological  treatments.   In this course we will review the foundations of the field,  starting from the biophysical foundations of current or emerging single molecule  DNA sequencing techniques, through an introduction to the analytical tools to  model and analyze NGS Data, and finally discussing clinical applications such as  predicting drug response focusing on cancer. The course will involve bi-weekly  homework assignments that include theoretical analysis and modeling, working  with multiple analysis tools for NGS data including assembly, re-sequencing,  alignments, RNA-seq, ChIP-seq, DNA methylation, mutation analysis and detection,  copy number variation detection, and their applications to cancer. 4 cr 		

