	Statistical description of plasmas as many-body systems. Liouville equation. Distribution functions. Transport phenomena in plasmas. Fokker-Planck theory. Applications for MHD power generation, sputtering, plasma deposition, ambipolar diffusion in machine plasmas. Kinetic equations for plasma. Maxwell-Vlasov theory of plasma waves and plasma instability. Applications to microwave devices, particle beams, space and laboratory plasmas. Fluctuations, correlations, and plasma radiation. 		

ENG EC 732: Combinatorial Optimization and Graph Algorithms
           			Design data structures and efficient algorithms for priority queues, minimum spanning trees, searching in graphs, strongly connected components, shortest paths, maximum matching, and maximum network flow.  Some discussion of intractable problems and distributed network algorithms. Meets with ENGSE732.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG EC 733: Discrete Event and Hybrid Systems
           			Review of system theory fundamentals distinguishing between time-driven and event-driven dynamics. Modeling of Discrete Event and Hybrid Systems: Automata, Hybrid Automata, Petri Nets, basic queueing models, and stochastic flow models. Monte Carlo computer simulation: basic structure and output analysis. Analysis, control and optimization techniques based on Markov Decision Process theory with applications to scheduling, resource allocation and games of chance. Perturbation Analysis and Rapid Learning methods with applications to communication networks, manufacturing systems, and command-control. Meets with ENGME733 and ENGSE733. Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG EC 734: Hybrid Systems
           			The course offers a detailed introduction to hybrid systems, which are dynamical systems combining continuous dynamics (modeled by differential equations) with discrete dynamics (modeled by automata). The covered topics include modeling, simulation, stability analysis, verification, and control of such systems. The course contains several applications from both natural and manmade environments, ranging from gene networks in biology, to networked embedded systems in avionics and automotive controls, and to motion planning and control in robotics. Same as ENG ME 734 and ENG SE 734. Students may receive credit for one. 		

ENG EC 741: Randomized Network Algorithms
           			Probabilistic techniques and paradigms in the design and evaluation of network algorithms.  Review of basic concepts in probability, graph theory, and algorithms.  Tail inequalities and Chernoff bounds.  Ball and bins and random graph models.  Markov chains and random walks.  The probabilistic method.  Monte Carlo methods.  Introduction to martingales, networking applications: distributed content storage and look-up in P2P networks, IP traceback, fountain codes, universal hash functions, packet routing. Same as SE 741. Students may not receive credit for both.  4 cr.		

ENG EC 744: Mobile Ad Hoc Networking and Computing
           			Mobile routers, wireless interconnectivity, and an unpredictably changing topology characterize a Mobile Ad hoc Network (MANET). Covers MANET-specific topics related to resource discovery, handoff, MAC-layer, security, routing, mobility and location management, self-organization, caching, and practical implementations. 		

ENG EC 745: Nanomedicine
			

ENG EC 749: Interconnection Networks fo Multicomputers
           			Interconnection network topologies. Static and dynamic networks. Routing in multicomputer networks. Network flow control. Deadlocks in routing. Multicast and broadcast. Fault-tolerance and reliability of interconnection networks. Modules for realization (nodes and routers). Performance metrics for different topologies. 		

ENG EC 752: Theory of Computer Hardware Testing
           			At the present time cost of testing is much higher than cost of design and manufacturing for computer systems. The course will contain a unified presentation of approaches for testing and diagnosis of computer hardware. Gate-level testing, functional testing, testing and diagnosis of microprocessors, memory testing, and random testing. Design for testability. Data compression of test responses. Architectures for built-in self-testing and self-diagnosis. Self-error-detection and self-error-correction in processors and memories. 		

ENG EC 753: Fault-Tolerant Computing
           			This course will cover techniques for design of fault-tolerant digital devices with on-line self-error-detection and self-error-correction. Fault-tolerant PLAs, gate arrays, and computer memories. Fault-tolerant computer architectures. Application of error-detecting and error-correcting codes for design of reliable devices with self-error detection/correction. Design of self-checking checkers. Combining on-line and off-line error-detecting techniques. Reliability analysis of fault-tolerant devices. Self-error detection/correction for multiprocessors. 		

ENG EC 757: Advanced Microprocessor Design
           			This project course provides a varied and practical view of the development cycle of an embedded system design. Topics include hardware and software design methodologies, use of CAD and simulation tools, assemblers, compilers, debuggers, and programmers. Microprocessor architectures from Motorola, Intel, TI, and ARM will be discussed and evaluated. Computer interfaces such as I2C, CAN, USB, PCI, Ethernet, and Bluetooth will be discussed in detail. Students will gain a clear understanding of the design cycle from project definition and proposal to PCB layout and manufacturing. A course design project is required. 		

ENG EC 760: Advanced Topics in Photonics
	This is an advanced special topics course in photonics; topics will vary from year to year. It will be offered in the spring term when there is no other 700-level course in the photonics area. Students who take the course on two different topics would be able to receive credit for it twice. Some of these offerings may become a permanent part of the curriculum in the future.  		

ENG EC 762: Quantum Optics
           			Review of the postulates of quantum mechanics. Quantization of the electromagnetic field. Coherent, thermal, squeezed, and entangled states, and their associated photon statistics. Interaction of light with matter. Spontaneous and stimulated transitions. Theory of optical detection. Quantum theory of the laser. Interaction of light with two-level atoms, including photon echo and self-induced transparency. Quantum theory of parametric interactions. 		

ENG EC 763: Nonlinear and Ultrafast Optics
           			Tensor theory of linear anisotropic optical media. Second- and third-order nonlinear optics. Three-wave mixing and parametric interaction devices, including second-harmonic generation and parametric amplifiers and oscillators. Four-wave mixing and phase conjugation optics. Electro-optics and photo-refractive optics. Generation, compression, and detection of ultra short optical pulses. Femtosecond optics. Pulse propagation in dispersive linear media. Optical solitons.  		

ENG EC 764: Optical Measurement
           			The course begins with a review of classical electromagnetic radiation theory and properties of light such as polarization and coherence. In the first part of the course attention will be given to applications of interference and polarization effects used in different passive application areas such as resonators (e.g. sensors, switching and detection), visibility and interferometry measurements and the usage both of highly coherent and incoherent light respectively. The second part of the course will consider light-matter interactions in dispersive media and compare classical, semi-classical, and quantum mechanical models with focus on the two-level system.  The analysis will be applied to active spectroscopy measurements such as absorption and transmission, Photoluminescence, Raman and IR in time and frequency domain measurements. The emphasis will be on extracting material morphology and material properties, illustrated with classical and current journal papers.  Finally, we will also discuss relevant tools such as spectrometers and detectors.   		

ENG EC 765: Biomedical Optics and Biophotonics
	This course surveys the applications of optical science and engineering to a variety of biomedical problems, with emphasis on optical and photonics technologies that enable real, minimally-invasive clinical applications. The course teaches only those aspects of biology itself that are necessary to understand the purpose of the application. The first weeks introduce the optical properties of tissue, and following lectures cover a range of topics in three general areas: 1) Optical spectroscopy applied to diagnosis of cancer and other tissue diseases; 2) Photon migration and optical imaging of subsurface structures in tissue; and 3) Laser-tissue interactions and other applications of light for therapeutic purposes. In addition to formal lectures, recent publications from the literature will be selected as illustrative of various topical areas, and for each publication one student will be assigned to prepare an informal presentation (with overhead slides or PowerPoint) reviewing for the class the underlying principles of that paper and outlining the research results. Same as ENGBE765; students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG EC 770: Guided-wave Optoelectronics
           			Discussion of physics and engineering aspects of integrated optics and optoelectronic devices. Semiconductor waveguides, lasers, and photodetectors. Layered semiconductor structures, quantum wells, and superlattices. QW detectors, emitters, and modulators. OEICs. Photonic switching. 		

ENG EC 771: Physics of Compound Semiconductor Devices
           			Physics of present-day compound devices, and emerging devices based on quantum mechanical phenomena. MESFETs, Transferred Electron Devices, avalanche diodes, photodetectors, and light emitters. Quantum mechanical devices based on low dimensionality confinement through the formation of heterojunctions, quantum wells, and superlattices. High electron mobility transistors, resonant tunneling diodes, quantum detectors, and lasers. Materials growth and characterization are integral to the course. 		

ENG EC 772: VLSI Graduate Design Project
           			EC772 is a project-oriented course that demonstrates the use of high-level   design techniques.  There are lectures, milestone presentations, and a final   presentation.  The lectures, interleaved with tutorials showing the utilization   of Verilog, the Cadence RTL compiler, and Silicon Encounter, define the general   design flow.  Additional design issues are also elaborated in the form of   classroom lectures, which take up a fraction of the course class time. Student   groups of 2-5 define their own projects, which are scrutinized by the entire   class as to difficulty and possibility of success.   Milestones entail both oral   (presented in class times) and written components.  Typically, by the time of   the final presentation, the milestone documents can be simply, with test results   (not necessarily simple), are combined to demonstrate the veracity of the final   chip design.  Pay special attention to prerequisites.   Verilog is at the heart   of almost everything.  EC311 and EC413 or equivalent courses can provide the   minimal Verilog proficiency for LEAP students.  These courses do not qualify for   grad student credit, so EC551 (Verilog: may be co-req) or equivalent Verilog  skill is  necessary.   EC571 VLSI Design or strong equivalent proficiency in  digital  circuits at the transistor level is also essential.  		

ENG EC 773: Advanced Optical Microscopy and Biological Imaging
		This course will present a rigorous and detailed overview of the theory of optical microscopy starting from basic notions in light propagation and covering advanced concepts in imaging theory such as Fourier optics and partial coherence. Topics will include basic geometric optics, photometry, diffraction, optical transfer functions, phase contrast microscopy, 3D imaging theory, basic scattering and fluorescence theory, imaging in turbid media, confocal microscopy, optical coherence tomography (OCT), holographic microscopy, fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS), fluorescence resonant energy transfer (FRET), and nonlinear-optics based techniques such as two-photon excited fluorescence (TPEF) and second-harmonic generation (SHG) microscopy. Biological applications such as calcium and membrane-potential imaging will be discussed. A background in optics is preferable. A background in signals and analysis is indispensable. In particular, the student should be comfortable with Fourier transforms, complex analysis, and transfer functions. Meets with ENGBE773.  Students may not receive credit for both.		

