SHA HF 354: Ethical Dilemmas in Hospitality Administration
           			Examines the competing social and ethical values managers use to make decisions. Includes analysis of the classical ethical theories, the moral stages of development, and the socialization process to corporate values. Discusses macro public policy issues such as privacy and discrimination, and micro compliance issues such as honesty in communications and record keeping, and conflict of interest. 4 credits, offered Fall Only.		

SHA HF 360: Hospitality Sales Management
           			Introduction to the practical application of the sales process, including the selling process, identifying prospects, working with distribution channels, creativity in sales, and how to manage a sales department. 2 credits.		

SHA HF 362: Destination Marketing
           			Analysis of the operations and functions of convention bureaus and tourism boards and their relationship to the hotel and restaurant industry.  Topics include the funding and managing of convention bureaus and the marketing programs utilized by destination promotion organizations.  2 credits.		

SHA HF 363: Tourism Management
           			Discuss professional techniques and practices of foreign and domestic tourism, travel delivery systems, and tourism destination developments. 4 credits.		

SHA HF 370: Revenue Management and Technology
           			This course provides an advanced overview of the revenue management function in hotels. Revenue management is an integrated approach to maximizing revenue that includes capacity analysis, demand forecasting, variable pricing, and distribution technology. 2 credits, offered Fall &amp; Spring.		

SHA HF 375: Meetings &amp; Conventions
           			This course provides an introduction to the methods and techniques utilized in planning, organizing, promoting and delivering of businesses and social events, and the role events play in generating a tourist and business market. Information will be presented that will allow the student to gain general knowledge of planning events. 4 credits, offered Fall &amp; Spring. 		

SHA HF 382: Hospitality Communications Practicum
           			This course is intended as a 'practicum' in hospitality communications.  This course is open to sophomores, juniors and seniors.  This is a seven (7) week course offered in the first half and second half of the semester.  The focus is on the development of those communication skills that are critical to being effective managers.  There will be readings on communication, but the majority of the course will focus on skills development.  Each week students will be required to deliver presentations to the class.  These presentations will be videotaped and critiqued.  By the end of this course students will be much more comfortable, clear, and confident speakers in any situation. Fail/Pass.  2 credits, offered Fall and Spring.		

SHA HF 403: Seminar with Distinguised Hospitality Speakers
           			This course is designed to give a limited number of seniors (or others with special permission) who are enrolled in the HF 103 Distinguished Hospitality Speaker Series, an opportunity to meet with those speakers in an informal seminar setting.  Students will be expected to write several papers about the topics covered by the speakers as the basis for their course grades. Sprg sem. 2 credits		

SHA HF 410: Finance for the Hospitality Industry
           			Studies the techniques financial managers and external analysts employ to value the firm and its assets. Topics include financial statement analysis, taxation, discounted cash flow, stock and bond valuation, cost of capital, and capital budgeting. The techniques of discounted cash flow and the command of taxation principles developed in the course are applied to commercial real estate analysis, including hospitality properties. 4 credits, offered Fall &amp; Spring.		

SHA HF 415: Hospitality Asset Management
           			This course is designed to introduce the student to a rapidly growing area of the lodging industry, namely, asset management.  The course will define what asset management is today and examine the skills required to be a successful asset manager.  There will be a special focus on the benefits to the hotel owner of hiring an asset manager and the role of the asset manager in representing the owner in deliberations about annual operating budgets and capital plans with the hotel management company.  Finally, the course will examine what kinds of job opportunities are available in industry to those who desire to become asset managers. 2 credits.		

SHA HF 416: Hospitality Franchising
           			This course deals with both the legal and practical applications of franchise systems including the start-up, development, operation and management of franchises from the perspective of both the franchisor and the franchisee.  Particular emphasis will be placed on the franchisor-franchisee relationship.  The course will focus on both the restaurant and hotel industries. 2 credits.		

SHA HF 417: Hotel Management Agreements &amp; Negotiation
           			This course deals with both the legal and practical application, negotiation, and implementation of hotel (and to a lesser extent, restaurant) management agreements from the perspective of the owner and the operator.  Particular emphasis will be placed on the negotiation of a hotel management agreement. 2 credits.		

SHA HF 422: Food Laboratory Modules: Seafood Cookery
           			Hands-on course focuses on preparation of a wide variety of seafood species as well as various cooking techniques.  1 credit, offered Spring Only.  		

SHA HF 423: Food Laboratory Modules: Contemporary Nutrition Cookery
           			Hands-on course focuses on nutritional preparations and modern presentations of regional American cuisine. 1 credit, offered Spring Only.		

SHA HF 424: Food Laboratory Modules: Pastries
           			Hands-on course features the preparation of many different categories of fine desserts, pastries, and petit fours. 1 credit, offered Fall Only.		

SHA HF 430: Advanced Wine Study
           			Students must be 21 to take this course.  This course offers a thorough study of wine tasting, wine and food pairing and wine and food event planning.  Each class features a blind tasting of selected wines along with discussion on the principles of critical tasting and wine and food pairing.  The objectives of the course are to fully prepare those entering the hospitality industry to purchase wines and to recommend them to customers with various types of food. 2 credits, offered Fall &amp; Spring.		

SHA HF 432: Hospitality Leadership
           			This course will focus on leadership and management for the hospitality industry. Using a leadership continuum as a framework, we will explore several different levels of leadership, from a "traditional" leadership role as the head of a major corporation to the more personal aspect of self-leadership.  Several different leadership models will be analyzed and applied to the hospitality industry.  Leadership tools will be explored - hands-on, realistic tools that you will be able to use in your personal lives, while in school and in the business world upon graduation.  Seniors only. 4 credits, offered Fall &amp; Spring.		

SHA HF 440: International Experience
           			This requirement can be fulfilled by living or working in a foreign country for ten weeks or exploring through coursework the language and culture of another country. Students may also propose an independent study to fulfill this requirement. 0 credits, offered Fall &amp; Spring.		

SHA HF 460: Hospitality Strategic Marketing
           			In this course, students work with local hotel or restaurant sales and marketing groups to develop their strategies, plans and programs for targeted market segments.  Class studies and exercises are used to help develop the skills needed by the students to accomplish this.  Industry speakers bring the current market reality into the classroom.  Seniors only. 4 credits, offered Fall &amp; Spring.		

SHA HF 532: Hospitality Leadership
		This course will focus on leadership and management for the hospitality industry. Using a leadership continuum as a framework, we will explore several different levels of leadership, from a "traditional" leadership role as the head of a major corporation to the more personal aspect of self-leadership.  Several different leadership models will be analyzed and applied to the hospitality industry.  Leadership tools will be explored - hands-on, realistic tools that you will be able to use in your personal lives, while in school and in the business world upon graduation.  A special paper about leadership in the hospitality industry will also be required.  Seniors only. 4 credits, offered Fall &amp; Spring		

