
SHA HF 100: Introduction to the Hospitality Industry
	Serves as the prerequisite to all SHA courses. Students wishing to take any SHA courses must first complete SHA HF 100.  An introductory course designed to offer an overview of the hospitality industry. Students gain a historical perspective and track current events. The class discusses the structure of the industry including chains, franchising, ownership, and management. The course explores the inner workings of various components of lodging, food service, and entertainment organizations. It previews the important disciplines covered in upper-level classes. Actual industry examples and case studies are used extensively. This course is not offered to seniors.  4 credits, offered Fall &amp; Spring.

SHA HF 103: Distinguished Hospitality Management Lecturers
	A series of guest lectures given by high-level industry executives who have distinguished themselves in the hospitality industry. You may take the course twice for credit. Pass/Fail grading. 2 credits, offered Spring Only.  

SHA HF 120: Fundamentals of Food Service Management
	A lab-based overview of food production. Emphasis is placed on food science, nutrition, and food management skills. Students practice food management techniques, proper use of tools and equipment, and the evaluation of food products. The concepts of managing from the front door and the back door are also discussed. Additional $150 for lab supplies. 2 credits, offered Fall &amp; Spring.

SHA HF 140: Hospitality Field Experience I
	400 hours of supervised internship experience.  0 cr., either sem.

SHA HF 200: Hosp Mgmt Intro
	This course description is currently under construction.

SHA HF 210: Financial Accounting for the Hospitality Industry
	An introductory course in Accounting designed to provide students with a basic understanding of the language of business.  This course examines the basic accounting processes of recording, classifying, and summarizing business transactions.  It also provides an opportunity to study elements of financial statements such as assets, liabilities, equity, revenue, and expenses. 4 credits, offered Fall &amp; Spring.

SHA HF 220: Food &amp; Beverage Management
	This courses focuses on principal operating problems facing managers in the restaurant industry. Topics such as concept development and entrepreneurship, menu analysis, cost control, operational analysis, and customer service processes are addressed. 4 credits, offered Fall &amp; Spring.

SHA HF 231: Human Resources Management for the Hospitality Industry
	Explores contemporary human resource management relative to the hospitality industry, with emphasis on planning, job analysis, recruitment, selection, hiring, placement, and ethnic diversity in the workplace. Specifically, the course concentrates on employee motivation, leadership, training, team building, employee performance and retention. Management philosophies of work compensation, discipline, and labor relations are discussed as they affect current hospitality industry strategies to attract and retain a quality workforce. 4 credits, offered Fall &amp; Spring.

SHA HF 240: Hospitality Field Experience II
	400 hours of supervised internship experience.  0 credits, Offered Fall &amp; Spring.

SHA HF 250: Hospitality Law
	A look at the laws that apply to hotels, food-service establishments, and the travel industry. Consideration of innkeepers' duties to guests.  Concepts of liability and negligence, contract and property practices, and miscellaneous statutes applicable to the hospitality industry. 2 credits, offered Fall &amp; Spring.

SHA HF 260: Hospitality Marketing Principles
	This course provides an understanding of the role and function of marketing in the hospitality industry. It offers an overview of generic principles of marketing for any industry (including consumer products and manufacturing) and introduces specialized principles for the hospitality industry. For all topics, it uses examples taken primarily from the hospitality industry. Subjects covered include marketing strategy, marketing research, consumer behavior, segmentation, positioning, product and concept development, pricing, distribution, and marketing communications (including advertising and public relations). Class discussion, lectures, and case studies. 4 credits, offered Fall &amp; Spring.  

SHA HF 270: Lodging Operations and Technology
	This course provides an introduction to the operations and technology of the room division within hotel properties.  Explores theoretical principles and operational tactics for management of front office, reservations,housekeeping and engineering functions.  4 credits, offered Fall &amp; Spring.

SHA HF 295: Private Club Management
	Provide students with an introduction to the hospitality management specialization of Club Management.  Lecture topics will include:  what clubs are, organizational structure of clubs, service in the club environment, profit or non-profit, and professionals in club management.  There will also be guest speakers, classroom case studies and field trips.  2 cr., spring semester

SHA HF 307: Hospitality Entrepreneurship
	This course is intended to be a capstone experience for students seeking to understand hospitality entrepreneurship and innovation as a professional business system.  Student teams will create, develop and design a concise Pro Forma Business Plan for a start-up non-profit or profit-driven hospitality enterprise.  At the end of the semester teams will make a competitive presentation integrating the principles and skills mastered in previous coursework to a panel of successful hospitality entrepreneurs. 4 credits.

SHA HF 310: Managerial Accounting for the Hospitality Industry
	After a review of financial-accounting principles, this course examines how financial information is assembled and presented according to the Uniform Systems Accounts for hospitality enterprises. The primary emphasis of the course is on analytical and decision-making uses of financial information, including such topics as cost behavior, leverage, cost-volume-profit analysis, contribution-margin pricing, and budgeting. The course concludes with a review of hotel operating forms, including franchising and management contracts and assessing their impact on financial performance and risk. 4 credits, offered Fall &amp; Spring.

SHA HF 321: Advanced Food and Beverage Management
	This intermediate-level course is designed to complete a student's foundation in food and beverage management. Critical issues in the food service industry are explored in depth. Course content will vary. Analysis of daily operations with a focus on developing viable solutions to problems is emphasized. The course content is grouped into six thematic competency clusters. 4 credits.

SHA HF 322: Hospitality Facilities Design
	This course is designed to introduce students to the basic principles of facility planning, layout and design for hotel, dining, kitchen, public and service areas. At the completion of the course, students will be able to explain the design process common to all hospitality facilities, as well as the activities that occur during each phase of this process. 4 credits. 

SHA HF 329: Intro to Fine Wines
	This course offers a complete, introductory-level overview of the fine wines of the world.  The purpose of the course is fourfold: 1.  Ensure a thorough knowledge of the world's major wine-producing regions, their noble grape varietals, their classification systems and quality control laws. 2.  Build basic understanding of the wine-making process, its variations and its pitfalls, thus aiding in the ability to appreciate a great wine and spot a flawed one. 3.  Illustrate techniques of quantified sensorial assessment of wine so that the student may perform the buying function knowledgeably and confidently. 4.  Acquire an understanding of how to perform job functions related to wine, such as writing a wine list, in the hospitality industry. 2 credits, offered Fall &amp; Spring.

SHA HF 332: Professional Development for the Hospitality Industry
	This course provides an introduction to the management of others with an emphasis on the hospitality industry.  Using relevant articles and real life examples, it will provide a thorough look at what it means to be responsible for the performance of others. Topics covered will include exploring different management styles, performance management, directing and coaching others, and the effective training of staff.  2 credits.      

SHA HF 350: Tourism and Hospitality Industries in China
	This course is designed to introduce tourism and hospitality industries in China. This spring only course provides a unique opportunity to learn about China -- the emerging superpower and gain new perspective on travel and lodging operations. The course requires a field trip to China during the spring break. Students are responsible for additional fees for the trip. Class is open for all SHA sophomores, juniors, seniors, and SHA minors through an application and evaluation process. Contact Dr. Zoe Ho at zoejyho@bu.edu for application information. 4 credits, offered Spring Only.
