SPH SB 860: Strategies for Public Health Advocacy
		This course is for advanced MPH students. It will explore the role public health practitioners can play in advocating for programs and policies to improve the public's health that have been demonstrated to be effective through peer reviewed scientific research. Students will analyze the process of advocating for policy and program change based on scientific evidence at the city, state and federal level through the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government. 		

SPH SB 940: Culminating Experience in Social and Behavioral Sciences
	All Social &amp; Behavioral Sciences concentrators must complete an integrative professional electronic portfolio as their Culminating Experience. The electronic portfolio will frame individual students' expertise, focus, experience, and skills in public health and help them to market themselves for employment as public health practitioners. Within the electronic portfolio, students will reflect upon their studies and synthesize materials from a range of courses. In integrating their knowledge, students will develop a plan of lifelong learning that reflects areas in which to bridge a knowledge gap or focus in greater depth. To document their work on the culminating experience, concentrators must register for SPH SB940, a zero-credit, pass/fail course. For more details on the requirements for the culminating experience, please see the Concentrator Guide.  		

SPH SB 941: Culminating Experience in Social and Behavioral Sciences II
	All Social &amp; Behavioral Sciences concentrators must complete an integrative professional electronic portfolio as their Culminating Experience. The electronic portfolio will frame individual students' expertise, focus, experience, and skills in public health and help them to market themselves for employment as public health practitioners. To document their work on the culminating experience, concentrators must register for SPH SB940, a zero-credit, pass/fail course. Should they not finish the portolio in the semester in which they registered for SB940, students must register for SB941 and complete their work. For more details on the requirements for the culminating experience, please see the Concentrator Guide.		

