SSW CP 759: Introduction to Clinical Social Work Practice
		In this foundation clinical practice course, students learn principles and methods for assessment and intervention with individuals, groups and families. Competencies include establishing and maintaining a helping relationship, interviewing, contracting and goal setting, treatment planning and implementation. Students are able to apply appropriate interventions at various stages of the therapeutic relationship for various types of clients in an urban social context. In-class skill practice includes developing rapport, using a strengths perspective, monitoring self-disclosure, reaching for feelings, containing affect, focusing and summarizing.  		

SSW CP 762: Advanced Group Work
		Building on CP 771, the course elaborates the idea of the group-as-a-whole and focuses intensively on the therapeutic tasks of group formation, attention to structure and maintenance, facilitation of individual need satisfaction, and responsiveness to the agency and community environment.  Using various theoretical frameworks and the integration of research findings, students analyze interactions and content of groups from their internships. They apply critical thinking skills and modify their interventions to meet the needs of group members from a range of backgrounds. 		

SSW CP 764: Group Dynamics
		This advanced seminar in group modalities and dynamics is designed for social work students who are specializing in the group work method. The aim of the seminar is to deepen students' knowledge base and practice with group dynamics and selected group work modalities. The relationship among the group members and between members and the group facilitator(s) is a significant focus in the seminar. Throughout the seminar, emphasis is placed on enhancing students' understanding, application and evaluation of evidence-based group work (EBGW).  Attending to issues of ethics and issues of diversity--class, age, gender, race, ethnicity, religion, and sexual orientation -- are woven throughout the seminar. The seminar is organized to include opportunities for a critical analysis of group dynamics, single-session experiential groups, and various group exercises. Priority is given to the further development of the professional 'group worker' in roles as leader, consultant and presenter. A highlighted component of the seminar includes Guest Presenters who are expert in specific group work modalities or with specific populations.  The Presenters will aid the students in the seminar to hone a deeper understanding of facilitator interventions and use of self in the group setting.		

SSW CP 770: Clinical Practice with Individuals
		The purpose of this course is to deepen skills of differential assessment, formulation, and intervention with individuals.  Three theoretical approaches guide this work: Cognitive (focusing on thoughts, feelings, and behavior), Behavioral (focusing on monitoring and reinforcing positive behavior), and Psychodynamic (focusing on dysfunctional childhood patterns repeated in the present). Using these perspectives, students analyze videotaped treatment sessions, demonstrate therapeutic approaches through classroom skill-practice, and present cases from their field internships for analysis and discussion.  Students also learn to make five-axial clinical diagnoses using the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders.		

SSW CP 771: Clinical Practice with Groups
		Students build on skills learned in CP 759 by examining group work methods with a range of client populations, in various community and clinical settings, and with differing client problems/issues of concern. Attention is paid to race, culture, gender, and class and to social and environmental stressors as students make decisions about group composition, contracting, problem solving and successfully terminating groups		

SSW CP 772: Clinical Practice with Families
		Students build on family theory, dynamics and skills learned in CP 759. They deepen their ability to build alliances with the family as a whole, assess families using common family assessment tools, and develop hypotheses about the family's experiences, structure and internal dynamics that may contribute to the presenting problem. Particular attention is paid to family structure, roles, rules and life cycle. Students practice the therapeutic techniques of joining and reflecting, employing the genogram to help families think differently about their history, identifying strengths and resilience in the family as a whole, motivating the family to change, and facilitating communication shifts and experimentation with new behavior. Emphasis is places on the clinician's use of self in working with diverse families who present with a range of problems and are seen in various community and clinical settings.		

SSW CP 785: Family Therapy
		This advanced practice course builds on CP 772 and enhances the systemic paradigm shift by providing a broad overview of major family therapy approaches and of contemporary issues in and research on family therapy.  Students then concentrate on a few approaches and populations to facilitate developing family-centered therapeutic skills for assessment and intervention.  The usefulness of utilizing a systems perspective to address issues in an urban context of social justice, at risk-populations and the effects of oppression will be embedded throughout the specific topics addressed in this course.  Attention also will be given to diverse client systems and students are encouraged to bring up families they are working with for class discussion.  Students observe and study videotapes of family therapists to practice assessment skills, develop an understanding of evidence-based clinical interventions and build proficiency in helping families with communication, organization and expression of feelings.   They also explore and evaluate how the different models fit their own personal style.  Class participation, including mini-exercises, role-plays, and discussion, will play a large role in augmenting reading assignments, lectures, and tapes.		

SSW CP 787: Clinical Practice with Couples
		This course provides an overview of the major theories and techniques of couples and marital therapy with an emphasis on empirically validated approaches to practice with couples. Throughout the course we incorporate an ecological understanding of family systems within the context of the multiple systems in which couple and family life is lived. Specific attention will be paid to the needs of the following populations; same-sex couples, inter-racial and inter-cultural couples; couples who have experienced physical aggression and infidelity; and couples living with chronic illness, histories of sexual abuse, and substance abuse.  Students will explore and evaluate how the different models of social work practice with couples fit their own personal styles.  Mini-exercises, skill-practice and class discussion play a significant role, as do lectures and viewing videotapes.  As a group, students provide an in-class, theory-based instructional presentation and demonstration of a couples counseling session.		

SSW CP 791: Seminar: Family Therapy
		This is the second course in the sequence for Family Therapy Certificate Program students, building on CP 785 by providing increased depth and range of content as well as examining the research base for family systems approaches. The course will explore contemporary issues within the field of family therapy and family centered social work practice.  Students will consider several prominent theories of family therapy, their more recent expressions within the professional literature, and how to consider them against the standards of evidenced based practice.  In particular, we will explore and critique what actually counts as evidence during clinical treatment in the hope of better defining where theory and practice actually come together.  At the completion of the course students will come away with a better understanding of the cutting edge controversies and professional concerns within the family therapy field.  Students will also be able to apply new learning to the processes of treatment application and outcome assessment.		

SSW CP 793: Directed Study
	Directed Study. Approval of instructor needed. 		

SSW CP 794: Clinical Practice with Children
		This course focuses on differential assessment and treatment of children and adolescents. It emphasizes activation of an affective therapeutic relationship with children and adolescents, with special attention to transference and countertransference, the distinction between narrative truth and historic truth, and special treatment concerns when working with severely traumatized or mentally ill children and adolescents. Students learn to differentiate between functional, organic, developmental, behavioral, and ethno-cultural factors in assessment of children and adolescents. Specialized treatment techniques include dramatization, metaphorical communication, and various forms of therapeutic play.		

SSW CP 795: Cognitive and Behavioral Treatment
		Students learn the theoretical frameworks underlying cognitive and behavioral treatment (CBT) for adults and children including operant and respondent conditioning theory and cognitive models based mainly on A. T. Beck's theories.  Students learn cognitive/behavioral analysis (also called case formulation) and assessment of specific problem areas and disorders using students' current child and adult cases. The CBT treatment and session structure, format, and planning is emphasized. Several intervention methods are illustrated and practiced using case examples, video and "live" demonstrations and role plays. These include a variety of reinforcement procedures, assertiveness and social skills training, problem-solving, behavioral activation, exposure procedures (desensitization treatment of anxiety) and cognitive treatments (e.g., cognitive restructuring, working with automatic thoughts and core beliefs). Students distinguish cognitive and behavioral theories as to how they inform a case formulation and selection of intervention. As cognitive behavior change must be transparent and collaborative, special attention is also paid to the client/therapist relationship, application of CBT methods for diverse populations, and ethical issues. Students learn to search and discuss empirical findings regarding effective CBT interventions as well as evaluate the effectiveness of assessments and cognitive and behavioral treatment methods relevant to their client's target problem. Students present their own cases from their field placements to be used in discussion of CBT assessment and intervention methods for specific problems/disorders in order to address the specific needs and considerations relevant to the clientele being served.		

SSW CP 798: Psychodynamic Practice with Adults
		Students will expand on knowledge of psychodynamic practice gained in CP 770. They will examine additional theoretical approaches within a psychodynamic framework--Object Relations, Self-Psychology, and Ego Psychology and draw on a strengths perspective and apply these approaches to vulnerable populations and culturally diverse populations in multiple treatment settings. Students will leave the course with an ability to (a) describe and demonstrate the theoretical basis of each psychodynamic approach, (b) assess, analyze and evaluate client needs and treatment progress using a psychodynamic lens, and (c) explain the research that provides support for the psychodynamic approach.  		

SSW CP 799: Brief and Time-Effective Treatment
		This course surveys a range of brief and time effective treatment models including crisis intervention/single session interventions, solution focused brief therapy, narrative therapy, and stages of change/motivational interviewing. Students will develop skills  in brief treatment that can be used with children, adolescents, families, and adults who present with substance use, trauma, depression, anxiety, domestic violence, and other issues of concern in multi-stressed urban populations.  Students will acquire understanding of the theoretical and empirical bases, strengths, and limitations of each model. Use of in-class and videotaped role plays along with small group exercises will help students become more creative, flexible,  and accountable in their approaches to treatment, and will direct students away from a deficit (pathology) model towards a resource (possibility) treatment model. Students learn to collaborate with clients to create well-formed treatment goals, and to measure change as it occurs over time. Finally, students explore how their own values and beliefs about change may help or hinder clinical practice in the current health care environment.		

SSW CP 801: Clinical Practice with Adolescents in Social Context
SSW CP 900: Directed Study
	Directed Study. Approval of instructor needed.		

SSW CP 901: Directed Study
	Directed Study. Approval of instructor needed.		

SSW ET 753: Ethics and the Social Work Profession
	This required seminar is intended to inspire the moral imagination of social    work students, and prepare them for competent and compassionate ethical practice    as professionals. Ethics and the Social Work Profession (ET 753), examines the    issues of social work professionalism, the process of becoming a social work    professional, the tensions inherent in the goals of social work, and the ways    these interrelate to produce conflicts of values and ethics in social work    practice. The course focuses on acquiring and practicing the skills of ethical    decision-making, including values clarification, application of ethical theory,    utilization of codes of ethics, and models of ethical analysis. Both clinical    and macro aspects of social work are explored, with an emphasis on the    contemporary challenges of practice in multicultural and urban settings. Issues    of self-care, impairment, licensure, malpractice, whistle-blowing and other    professional challenges are explored. The course is set in the advanced    curriculum as an integrative capstone, designed to be concurrent with the    student's final semester in the MSW program.             		

SSW FE 791: Directed Study
	Directed Study. Approval of instructor needed.		

SSW FE 795: Directed Study
	Directed Study. Approval of instructor needed.		

SSW FE 800: Integrative Field Seminar
		The focus of this seminar is professional development and the role of the social work intern in the agency. The seminar meets several times each semester. Instructor sets schedule. Attendance is required.		

SSW FE 801: Field Education I
	Required of all students in their first semester of the first (foundation) field placement. Also required to be registered for a methods course.		

SSW FE 802: Field Education  II
	Required of all students in their second semester of the first (foundation) field placement. Also required to be registered for a methods course.		

SSW FE 803: Field Education III
	Required of all students in their first semester of the standard second (advanced) field placement. Also required to be registered for a methods course.		

SSW FE 804: Field Education IV
	Required of all students in their second semester of the standard second (advanced field placement). Also required to be registered for a methods course. 		

SSW FE 805: Advanced Field Placement: Non-Standard 1
	First semester of non-standard advanced placement (i.e. 12 month or modified block)		

SSW FE 806: Advanced Field Placement: Non-Standard 2
	Second semester of non-standard advanced placement (i.e. 12 month or modified block)		

SSW FE 807: Advanced Field Placement: Non-Standard 3
	Third semester of non-standard advanced placement (i.e. 12 month or modified block)		

SSW FE 818: Field Ed 818
			

SSW FE 819: Field Ed 819
			

SSW FE 820: Field Ed 820
			

SSW FE 821: Field Ed 821
			

SSW FE 822: Field Ed 822
			

SSW FE 823: Field 4/2 Jan-Jan
			

SSW FE 824: Field Ed 824
			

SSW FE 825: Field Ed 825
			

SSW HB 720: Human Behavior in the Social Environment
		This course constitutes the foundation course in the Human Behavior Department and is a prerequsite for all other courses in the HBSE sequence.  The goal of the course is to enable students to develop a framework for analyzing human behavior in order to create empathic, empowering relationships with individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. A select set of theories is presented to enable students to examine how individuals and communities develop and interact. We also consider how oppression, power and privilege, and culture and cultural contexts can shape individual values, beliefs, worldviews, and identities, all of which play a role in the helping process.  Finally, we examine human development throughout the lifespan, considering the developmental scientific knowledge base regarding opportunities and vulnerabilities present during the different stages of the lifecycle, and the biopsychosocial and cultural factors that can influence individual development. The ability to analyze human behavior in the social environment, drawing from theoretically and empirically grounded evidence bases is essential for all forms of social work practice. 		

SSW HB 723: Adult Psychopathology
		The goal of this course is to provide students with a framework for  understanding human behavior when challenges to healthy adult functioning  overwhelm coping mechanisms and resources.  A biopsychosocial model of  psychopathology is emphasized as we study some of the disorders classified in  the DSM-5, including anxiety disorders, mood disorders, psychotic disorders,  PTSD, dissociative disorders, personality disorders, eating disorders, and  substance abuse/addictions. Complex factors in the etiology of various disorders  are considered, including genetic, neurochemical, biological, developmental,  familial, sociocultural, and political variables that affect the occurrence,  presentation, course, and treatment of a problem.  While learning the  perspective and language of the phenomenological approach outlined in the DSM-5,  we also highlight weaknesses and blind spots in the traditional approach to  diagnoses.  In particular, we explore the impact of oppression and bias on the  naming and treatment of mental disorders, including the influences of race,  gender, sexual orientation, class, disability, religion, and ethnicity on the  diagnostic process.  Students learn to consider the DSM-5 classification system  as a social construction that reveals as much about the society and its views of  human behavior as it does about the clients with whom social workers have  contact.    While this course is not designed to focus on treatment, students  have the opportunity to consider how diagnoses inform treatment and review  current research on both biological and psychosocial treatments for different  disorders.  Finally, we seek to enhance empathic understanding of our clients  experiences and the experiences of their families and loved ones, remembering  that people are not their diagnoses, that what is labeled individual pathology  may be an adaptive response to oppressive external circumstances, and that  people who experience a breakdown in functioning demonstrate not only  difficulties but also compelling strengths.  This course employs lecture, large  and small group discussion, case presentations, and videotapes.  Clinical  vignettes from instructors and class are used to illustrate mental disorders and  theoretical perspectives, and make material relevant to clinical practice,  particularly with urban populations		

SSW HB 727: Child Psychopathology
		Grad Prereq: SSW HB 720 or permission of department chair.  *This course uses a developmental psychopathological model to explore complex psychological disturbances in children, adolescents, and families with a focus on the urban family experience.  It addresses multiple research and theoretical perspectives that promote a way of understanding ?normal? and ?pathological? child and adolescent behaviors that change over time in the context of their genetic make-up, biological processes, interpersonal relationships, culture, and available community resources and support.  In this course, developmental, systemic, psychodynamic, neurobiological and behavioral theoretical perspectives inform students? understanding of children and adolescents? adaptive and maladaptive patterns of behavior, which evolve over time in the context of their complex developmental histories and socio-cultural relational experiences.  The course promotes the importance of assessing in children and families both the historical and present risks for disturbed behavioral development and the historical and present protective factors that promote healthy and resilient behavioral development.  Implied throughout the course curriculum is the perspective that a deep understanding of children?s adaptations to stress and trauma is central in the social worker?s role of making informed and accurate assessments and diagnostic evaluations of children, adolescents, and families.  Discussion of clinical case material and relevant research assists students in learning to assess children and adolescents? current, unique developmental needs and strengths with a goal of empowering them to find pathways of behavior that better meet these developmental needs and give freedom to the deepening of these strengths. 3 cr.		

SSW HB 729: Human Sexuality
		Through readings, discussion, lectures, guest speakers, films, and other methods, students explore the broad range of issues concerning human sexuality. This course covers the facts of human sexuality and reproductive health. Students examine their own values and opinions concerning sexuality. There is an opportunity to discuss improving communication with clients about sexual issues, with an emphasis on examining client resistance to talking about sexual issues, and the impact of the social worker's discomfort with or avoidance of this topic. This course also considers the rationale for including sexual issues with client interactions, as well as the importance of taking a sexual history as a part of any clinical interaction. 		

SSW HB 735: Racial Justice and Cultural Oppression
		This course examines the social psychological, and institutional causes and implications of racism as a dynamic force influencing social work. The course builds on and integrates concepts presented in foundation courses.  It analyzes and evaluates the social, cultural, political, economic, and interpersonal contexts of racism that bear on our current policies and institutional arrangements. The course is designed to familiarize students with 1) theoretical overviews of race and racism; 2)historical accounts and contemporary experiences of racism; 3) the formation of racial identity; 4) multicultural contexts and fundamentals of cultural competency; and 5) effective social change efforts based on organizational analysis. 		

SSW HB 736: Directed Study
	Directed Study. Approval of instructor needed.		

SSW HB 741: Family Violence in Society
		This course introduces students to the dynamics of family violence and its multiple effects on children, adults, and communities. It draws from current evidence from social work, the social sciences, and neurobiology to frame our theoretical understanding of family violence. We also review a number of prevention and intervention programs for a variety of populations. Special attention is given to the impact of violence upon vulnerable populations, including women, children, and elders. The course also discusses current knowledge regarding the perpetration of family violence, with a specific focus on intimate partner violence, child physical abuse, and child sexual abuse. The course equips students to work competently and in an evidence-informed manner in family violence research, advocacy, practice ,and policy. Specifically, students deepen their understanding of the following: theoretical frameworks for understanding the etiology and dynamics of multiple forms of family violence in society, the historical and contemporary influences in current social policy related to family violence, and prevention and intervention approaches for individuals and communities affected by family violence. 		

SSW HB 743: Social Work with Refugees and Immigrants
		Social workers and other mental health and social service practitioners find themselves increasingly called upon to work with refugees and immigrants from around the world.  Social workers are also becoming sought after by international development agencies and non-governmental organizations. In this course we gain an understanding of the refugee and immigrant experience and of the continuum of the acculturation process.  We examine the potential problems facing these individuals and families as they seek to rebuild their lives; we learn to recognize and utilize their strengths, cultural resources and natural support systems; and we increase our cultural competence by learning skills for culturally appropriate relationship-building, clinical assessment, and intervention. 		

SSW HB 744: Spirituality and Social Work Practice
		The goal of this course is to acquaint the student with current theories regarding religion and spirituality and their role in clinical work.  Particular attention is given to the function of spirituality and religion in bridging internal and external adaptations throughout the life cycle.  Utilizing psychodynamic and narrative frameworks, this course addresses ways of assessing and working with an individual?s spiritual and existential belief systems and attending to the ways in which spiritual beliefs and practices provide a window into a client?s inner world.  In addition, the course addresses issues of transference and countertransference as they arise in the exploration of religious and spiritual material in psychotherapy.  The course draws heavily on case material, film, and fiction. 		

SSW HB 746: Resilience Across the Lifespan
		Humans have an amazing capacity to adapt well to adversity?a phenomenon known as resilience. This course uses a resilience framework to explore development across the lifespan, with implications for social work practice. The approach presumes that resilience results from dynamic interactions between individuals and their environments, and that every person has the potential to overcome significant challenge at any point in the life course. The construct of resilience has become well-used in social science fields, perhaps as a reaction to deficit models of development, or as part of a renewed focus on human strengths. As a result, greater attention is paid to those who do well ?despite the odds,? and on the environmental contexts that support these adaptations.  The course examines conceptual, empirical, and applied work on resilience, including new and sometimes controversial applications of resilience theory to social work practice with individuals, families, and communities.		

SSW HB 747: Childhood Maltreatment &amp; Social Work Practice: Developmental Perspectives
		By virtue of their direct practice roles in a range of agencies that offer health and human services to children, youth, and families, social workers are in an ideal position to address childhood maltreatment and their developmental sequelae. This course uses an ecological perspective, risk/resilience framework, and developmental perspective to examine conceptual, empirical, and applied work on childhood maltreatment such as physical abuse, sexual abuse, emotional abuse, and neglect. We will examine, from a variety of theoretical frameworks, the factors, indicators, and dynamics associated with childhood maltreatment. Prevention, practice, policy and research issues will be critically assessed. Particular attention will be given to understanding developmental sequelae of childhood maltreatment, including emotional/behavioral problems and addictive behaviors.		

SSW HB 749: Social Perspectives on Health and Illness
		This course is designed to orient students toward major contemporary health issues and to foster an understanding of the way that social, environmental, and cultural contexts can contribute to either health or illness. The course is premised on the notion that understanding how context influences these outcomes is of direct importance to social work practice in a variety of domains. The course is organized into three modules. The first introduces students to important historical, theoretical, and current perspectives on health and illness and provides the groundwork for the rest of the course. The second module focuses on health and illness using the social ecology of health model. The last module focuses on emergent issues in health and illness, integrating the knowledge from the first two modules in order to demonstrate to students the multitude of ways in which social contexts can jointly promote health-related outcomes.		

SSW HB 750: Organizational Behavior and Culture
		This course familiarizes the student with basic concepts related to organizational behavior and culture in human service organizations. The primary focus is on how human service organizations function, with a particular focus on the influence of internal and external factors, and methods for achieving change within these settings. 		

SSW HB 751: Human Neuropsychology
		Students develop foundational knowledge in the structure and function of the nervous system with special emphasis on processes underlying common neuropsychological disorders. The course is designed to make basic neuroscience accessible and interesting for students with a minimum of basic science background.We cover basic neurophysiology, neuroanatomy, neurochemistry and nervous system development in the context of neuropsychological disorders to provide a clinical context for material that might otherwise seem overwhelming.		

SSW HB 752: Exploring Ethnicity, Race, and Culture through Narratives: Clinical and Human Behavior Perspectives
SSW IS 104: Intgrtve Sem 4
			

SSW IS 105: Intgrtve Sem 5
			

SSW IS 106: Intgrtve Sem 6
			

SSW IS 107: Intgrtve Sem 7
			

SSW IS 108: Intgrtve Sem 8
			

SSW MP 759: Communities and Organizations: Analysis and Intervention
		This course familiarizes the student with basic concepts and strategies related to large system, or macro, practice. The primary focus is on community and agency analysis, along with methods of achieving change within those settings. Students acquire a basic framework for problem solving and an understanding of the opportunities and limits in the role of change agent. 		

SSW MP 773: Human Services Management
		This is an advanced methods course in social administration/management covering topics in planning, supervision, performance appraisal, budgeting, and organizational theory. It is an ideal course for both clinical and macro students who want to develop management skills that they can use in their professional practices. The course examines the ethical dilemmas of administering social programs  and managing human service agencies in the context of a market economy where federal and state budget cuts have created competition for scarce resources. Students are introduced to basic management theories, organizational structure, supervision, performance appraisal, leadership, and conflict resolution. This is a prerequisite to all subsequent courses in the Human Services Management Program.		

SSW MP 774: Seminar: Community Planning
		This course examines a variety of themes regarding program development at a community level. Opportunities for public speaking are emphasized. Topics vary according to student interest.		

SSW MP 775: Strategic Management
		This course integrates the knowledge, skills, and attitudes learned in the preceding management courses and field experiences. It focuses on the general manager's role in organizational change. Topics include the impacts of changing federal, state, and local public policies on the nonprofit sector, and the strategic planning and implementation skills needed to bring about long-term change at the agency level. Using the case study method, the course examines significant current issues and emerging themes in social administration. Actual strategic plans are prepared. 		

SSW MP 776: Financial Management in Human Service Organizations
		This course provides an in-depth examination of management control systems, including fund accounting, operating, and cash budgets; line-item, program, and zero-base budgeting; cost accounting; and account structures. Students develop an understanding of financial statements, cash flow analysis, cost/benefit analysis, and break-even analysis. 		

SSW MP 778: Directed Study
	Directed Study. Approval of instructor needed.		

SSW MP 781: Community Organizing
		This course includes three interrelated modules. It begins with an examination of community organizing principles, empowerment theory, and the role of staff as a facilitator of individual and collective empowerment. The course next considers methods and skills for building and developing effective organizations in undervalued communities. Organizing models, outreach and recruitment, leadership development, creating participatory structures, and establishing democratic decision-making processes are examined. Finally, students focus on conducting social change campaigns, with an emphasis on issue selection, action research, strategic analysis, implementation of action plans, utilization of tactics, and assessment of outcomes. 		

SSW MP 783: Planning and Program Development
		This course introduces students to planning theory, planned social change, organizational development, program development, proposal writing, and leadership. Specific emphasis is placed on basic concepts, principles, skills, and knowledge necessary to effect change at the organizational and community levels. 		

SSW MP 785: Program Evaluation
		The aim of this course is to provide advanced MSW students with the theory and basic skills necessary to develop sound program evaluation models. It presents techniques for creating evaluation designs that respond both to a program's     organizational reality and to funding requirements. The course also includes a discussion of the political-policy context of program evaluation. Finally, students are provided with the opportunity to either participate in an ongoing evaluation effort or implement their own evaluation model in the field.		

SSW MP 794: Macro Field Seminar
	A required monthly seminar in support of field placements for non-MSW-supervised, second-year macro students. There are  no readings or assignments.		

SSW MP 795: Applied Macro Skills, Groups and Systems
		This course focuses on the development and staffing of various types of task groups in a range of settings. The course covers theory, knowledge, and skills related to task group development; leadership models; decision making; conflict resolution; coalition building; lobbying and influencing legislation; press and media relations; conducting effective meetings; staffing governance boards; resolving common group problems; and working with multicultural groups. It draws heavily from students' learning experiences in their current field placements (as well as employed positions, where applicable) and is conducted as an interactive seminar. 		

SSW MP 900: Directed Study
	Directed Study. Approval of instructor needed.		

SSW MP 901: Directed Study
SSW SR 744: Social Work Research II
		Students are introduced to the concepts and procedures that are fundamental to both descriptive and inferential statistics. Empirical research examining the effectiveness of social work practice, particularly in the urban environment, is explored. Utilizing existing national data sets, students generate their own research hypotheses and then formulate and carry out an analytic strategy to answer these questions effectively. Emphasis is also placed on gaining skills in presenting and communicating  key findings to relevant audiences and stakeholders		

SSW SR 747: Independent Research Project
	This is an elective course in which students either undertake an independent research project under faculty supervision or carve out a specific research focus in a broader faculty-led research project. The student completes a research report in which they typically describe the research objective, study?s significance, research methodology, and key findings.		

SSW SR 904: Clinical Research Methods in Social Work Practice
		This course familiarizes graduate students with design, implementation and analytic strategies for quantitative research with clinical populations. A particular emphasis is on the conduct of intervention studies. Topics include conceptualization and design, sampling of participants, assessment, data organization and management, analysis plans, evaluation and outcomes, and ethical concerns.		

SSW SR 905: Directed Study
	Directed Study. Approval of instructor needed.		

SSW SR 906: Qualitative Research Methods
	This course provides graduate students with foundational knowledge of some of the major theories and practices of qualitative research. The history of qualitative methods is reviewed to situate this long-standing approach within current practices in the social sciences. A variety of approaches to data collection (ethnography, observation, focus groups and individual interviewing) and analysis (narrative, grounded theory, Listening Guide) are introduced along with ethical issues in the practice of qualitative research. Strategies for enhancing rigor are discussed as are writing qualitative research proposals and publications. A series of exercises and a mini research project provide opportunities for direct application of the course material.  		

SSW SR 908: Directed Study
	Directed Study. Approval of instructor needed.		

SSW SR 909: Directed Study
	Directed Study. Approval of instructor needed.		

SSW WP 700: Social Welfare Policy I: Conceptions, Scope, History, and Philosophies of Social Welfare
		The first semester of this two-semester foundation course in social welfare policy explores concepts about the meaning and purpose of social welfare, ideologies, and values about the role of government and social welfare policy, the evolution of social welfare policy over time, and the role of social work in the development of social policy. 		

SSW WP 701: Social Welfare Policy II: Contemporary Social Policy Analysis
		This second-semester foundation course focuses principally on the study of urban poverty. Using a social problem/policy model, the course explores definitions, correlates, causes, and consequences of urban poverty. The same model is then used by students in exploring particular social problems and policies of interest to them. Particular emphasis is placed on analyzing current interventions and proposing means to improve policy intervention, including the contributions of social work. 		

SSW WP 703: International Social Welfare Policy
		This course is designed to familiarize students with social problems and social policies cross-nationally. It contrasts problem definitions and policy responses among nations at similar levels of economic development. The course presents    descriptive materials on social policies in different nations and contrasts, and traces factors leading in recent years toward welfare state retrenchment and away from welfare state expansion. 		

SSW WP 704: Social Policy and Programs on Aging
		This course explores the development and scope of public policies directed toward older persons. It reviews the provisions and workings of current programs, with special attention to implications for social work practice. Program areas investigated include acute and long-term health care, housing and community-based services, and the formal service structure and its relationship to informal service provision. Finally, the course explores emerging policy innovations in aging, such as public and private insurance for chronic-care needs, life care programs, and proposals for more progressive public policies affecting older Americans. 		

SSW WP 705: Mental Health and Social Policy
		This course provides an understanding of mental health policy and service delivery in the United States and of the impact of mental health policies on social work practice. It reviews multiple perspectives on mental health and mental illness and the history of social policies influencing mental health care. The class examines current trends in service delivery and financing (such as managed care and health insurance reform) and explores legal and ethical issues in the provision of mental health care. Models of family and consumer advocacy and empowerment are considered.		

SSW WP 706: Social Welfare Policy and the Family
		Profound changes in the structure of American society and in the makeup of the family have stimulated debate about the appropriate role of government in family maintenance and child rearing. This course reviews major social and demographic changes in the family and critical issues in the construction of a national family policy, particularly in the areas of income distribution, child welfare, social services, employment, and health care. 		

SSW WP 707: Social Welfare Policy and Programs on Children
		This course analyzes emerging issues and ideas about children and how these affect social policy and practice. It reviews major social and demographic changes in the family that affect the development of national policies designed to protect and provide for the care of children. The course emphasizes policies in such areas as income provisions, adoption, substitute care, neglect and abuse, social services, and employment. 		

SSW WP 710: Family Law and Children's Rights
		This course provides a framework for understanding law and social policy. It examines the impact of law on the social work profession. The class discusses issues of marriage and divorce, child custody and support, children's rights, and legal research. 		

SSW WP 711: Substance Abuse Policy
		This course in alcohol and drug policy is designed to provide students with a forum to acquire and synthesize knowledge of policy, research, and service organization in the field. The course will include topics such as alcohol and drug research, social problems that interface with alcohol and drug policy (e.g., poverty, gender, and race discrimination), key issues, controversies and trends, ethics and values issues, and the role of social work in the field of alcohol and drug policy and research.		

SSW WP 900: Social Program Analysis and Evaluation
SSW WP 906: Directed Study
	Directed Study. Approval of instructor needed.		

