KHC AS 101: The Pluto Saga: How Do You Become a Planet and Stay a Planet?
	This course will use the controversy over Pluto's status as a planet to explore  the astronomical, cultural, political and religious aspects that become linked  to science and societal issues. The central theme of the seminar is how to  gather and evaluate evidence through writing and quantitative methods. We will  examine the broad scope of how science proceeds in quantitative ways using  methods of sampling and observations. Both telescopes and museum visits will  help us better understand the role that visualization plays in describing how  Nature works. 

KHC BI 101: Climate Change in Massachusetts
	Henry David Thoreau spent decades observing and recording the natural history of  Concord and other sites in Massachusetts. This course will place his work within  the context of modern climate change research. Readings will include both  Thoreau's works as well as research papers comparing the observations of Thoreau  and other historical data sets with modern observations. In order to gain an  appreciation of the process whereby science is communicated to the public,  attention will also be given to the way in which these scientific papers have  been presented in the magazines and newspapers. During weekend field trips, we  will visit sites where Thoreau's research was carried out; including Walden  Pond, the Minute Man National Historical Site, the Great Meadow Wildlife  Sanctuary, and the Estabrook Woods. Other possible field sites include the Blue  Hills Observatory (origin of the oldest continuous weather records in the U.S.),  the Concord Free Library and the Thoreau Institute (where Thoreau documents are  held), the Arnold Arboretum in Jamaica Plain (where old photographs and plant  specimens are housed), Manomet Bird Observatory (on a day when birds are being  banded), Mt. Auburn Cemetery (where large numbers of bird watchers track bird  movements), and the Massachusetts State Laboratory (where mosquito numbers are  tracked). 

KHC CM 103: Constant Flux: Media and Communication from Telegraph to Twitter
	Students will explore the media environment and analyze the impact of technology  and information on their lives. Studies will highlight the development of  technology over time, assessing how governments, economies and social beliefs  were changed in unexpected ways. Students will perform research that uses  information from their academic majors as a foundation for examining the role  media play in their lives and society. Assessing how the liberal arts, sciences,  business and communication have changed with inventions such as the printing  press, telegraph, television and computers will encourage students to consider  the widespread impact of technology on the historical development of  civilization. 

KHC EC 102: Blood and Money
	This interdisciplinary seminar will introduce students to the interaction among the promise of science, ethics, and economic reality by focusing on the very specific topic of blood. We will examine an outcome that in one respect was obviously catastrophic. We will seek to understand it from a scientific, historical, and economic perspective. We will study the basic science of two specific blood diseases, sickle cell anemia and hemophilia. We will discuss the history of the development or treatments from those diseases. With respect to the economic perspective, we will analyze the economic forces that caused key players in the historical drama to behave as they did and assess what lessons the episode teaches about the reliance on market outcomes and ways to try to seek to improve upon them. 

KHC EK 101: Engineering  Light
	Students in this course will gain an appreciation for light and its use in three  optical instruments: the eye, the microscope, and the telescope. They will study  landmark discoveries concerning light, the development of various light sources,  the scientific advances that led to our current understanding about the  properties and characteristics of light waves and photons. The course includes  weekly lectures and in-class laboratory exercises, several field trips, and a  semester-long project. Students will engage in more than twenty hands-on  experiments throughout the semester, to untwinkle the stars with adaptive  telescopes, to measure the speed of light using parts hacked from a laser  pointer, to make a light bulb like Thomas Edison's, to discover how engineers  ruined -- and then fixed -- the world's first astronomical space telescope, and  to use a high-resolution ophthalmoscope to see image photoreceptors and  capillary blood flow in their own retinas. 

KHC HC 301: The Nature of Inquiry
	This course explores how we investigate nature, art, society and their  interconnections. It does so by examining and juxtaposing the practices of three  disciplines: history, natural science, and classics. Each section focuses on a  specific problem in one of these fields while also considering the general  questions of what we know, how we know it, and what knowledge means. Throughout  the semester, we consider fundamental ethical, social, and aesthetic issues  posed by the relationship of human beings to each other, nature, and works of  art. The central concern in this class is to understand how and why people make  decisions in complex circumstances; how they take or fail to take responsibility  for their outcomes, and how they respond when gross mistakes are made by others  or indeed by themselves.

KHC HC 302: The Nature of Inquiry: Insight & Invention
	How do different disciplines help us understand society, art, and nature? This  course attempts to bridge the gap between the arts, sciences, and professions,  and between "pure" and "applied" knowledge by examining the differences and  commonalities of different forms of knowledge. Consisting of six major units  drawn from diverse fields, we focus on how practitioners approach specific  problems in their areas of study. This exploration provides a basis for  confronting the general questions: What do we know? How do we know it? What does  knowledge mean? -- Thereby deepening our grasp of various forms of inquiry. 

KHC HC 401: The Process of Discovery
	This one-semester course explores the structure of the discovery process,  focusing on how researchers embed imaginative questions in viable research  projects and balance creative ambition with intellectual modesty. The course is  designed to guide students through the challenge of designing their senior  research projects through common readings of field-changing research across  disciplines, individual and group project analysis, and intensive writing  exercises. Together with KHC faculty and a faculty adviser of their own  choosing, students will learn how to capture the explanatory power of an  imaginative leap in clear language accessible to anyone outside their chosen  discipline.

KHC HC 501: Innovation, Culture and Society
	In this class we will discuss some of the landmark essays that anticipate and  critique the modern technological and media revolution (McLuhan, Foucault), as  well as identify key historical moments of tension when innovation sparked  important paradigmatic shifts or cataclysmic cultural repercussions (Gutenberg,  Galileo, Oppenheimer). We will extend the discussion to identify key disruptive  moments in business (in automobile manufacturing, regulation of safety  standards, and technology), and relevant global issues by looking at the  accelerated pace of technological change in Asia--using India as an informant-- and its effect on culture. Finally, we will consider two celebrated urban  examples--fin-de-siècle Vienna and post-World War II New York--where many lines  of innovation converged, fundamentally changing the culture and society of the  metropolis. As they did in the Junior year KHC HC 401 (The Process of  Discovery), students will work together in small groups to identify and discuss  the ongoing relationship between innovation and culture. They will present their  findings through classroom discussion and written work.

KHC HC 502: Innovation, Culture and Society 2
	This course builds on the principles and skills developed in KHC HC 501. The   course will center around the completion of the Senior Keystone project. 

KHC HC 503: Keystone
	Innovation, Culture, and Society will be supplemented by a two-credit independent course that students take with their Keystone advisor.  (2 credits, required both semesters) 

KHC HC 504: Keystone
	Innovation, Culture, and Society will be supplemented by a two-credit independent   course that students take with their Keystone advisor. (2 credits, required both   semesters

KHC LW 102: Mar,Fam,Gen
	

KHC MU 102: Listening
	This seminar offers an exploration of listening and its mediating practices and  technologies, from the stethoscope to the earbud. Through the lens of recent  theories of listening we begin by considering the way in which our own auditory  habits are socially and culturally determined. We then take a step back to  explore the emergence of the modern listener in the second half of the  nineteenth century and in particular the role of the telephone, phonograph, and  wireless telegraph in shaping a range of new listening practices. We then turn  our attention to the spaces of performance--from the concert hall to the jazz  club--and their associated musical repertories. Here we focus not only on issues  of acoustics, architecture, and social behavior but also on specific musical  compositions and performance traditions that were conceived for these spaces.  Finally, we consider how the advent of recorded sound has changed our  relationship to the way we listen to so-called "live" music. In this context we  engage with current debates on the ethics and aesthetics of sound reproduction,  transmission, and ownership. By exploring the public and private spaces in which  listening occurs, we consider the diversity of contemporary and historical  listening practices including the effect of recording technology on recent  performance practice, the relationship between sound and vision, and the way in  which industrial noise has transformed the way in which we hear. 

KHC NE 102: Rdg,Lang &Brain
	Although we often think of written and spoken language as interchangeable, how  children acquire these two abilities couldn't be more different: Children  effortlessly learn to speak and understand language just by listening to it  being spoken around them. On the other hand, becoming an expert reader requires  years of explicit instruction and effortful practice. Some individuals, with a  condition known as developmental dyslexia, will even face a lifelong struggle  with reading difficulties. This course explores the scientific study of reading  and language development -- a richly multidisciplinary effort that bridges the  fields of psychology, linguistics, neuroscience, and education. The emphasis of  this course will be on the modern scientific effort to understand "the reading  brain": how learning to read changes our brain in myriad ways, coordinating  neural systems for vision, hearing, language, and memory. Specific topics will  include the history of the alphabet and other writing systems, how different  cultures' writing systems produce different reading brains, how brain injuries  can result in specific impairments in language and reading, and how brain  imaging is helping unravel the mystery of reading impairment.   

KHC PH 101: American Bioethics
	Bioethics is the systematic study of the moral dimensions of the life sciences  and health care. We will examine various approaches to moral dilemmas, including  deontological, utilitarian, and pragmatic methods, as well as the human rights  and social justice paradigms.  American bioethics is often outcome-oriented, and  reflects and magnifies four deeply-ingrained American characteristics: we are  individualistic, technology-driven, death-denying, and wasteful.  These  characteristics make "reforming" American healthcare extremely contentious.   This introductory course addresses a wide variety of bioethics challenges in the  context of American life and politics, from assisted conception to assisted  death, from day-to-day medical care to extreme medical research, from brain  death to life-saving organ transplantation, emphasizing how decisions are  actually made in the US medical care setting, and the central roles of informed  consent and legal liability. The Affordable Care Act, especially opposition to  some of its provisions that are grounded in religious freedom, philosophy, and  conscious objection, will be explored.  Trying to understand how American  bioethics "works," and why our "best in the world" healthcare system is so  resistant to change, will be constant challenges in this seminar.

KHC RN 103: Islam in Western Eyes
	The course begins with a discussion of how religion as a category was defined by Europeans and Christians primarily in the 19th century and applied to the study of non-Europeans cultures at the same time.  This discussion of 19th century conceptions of religion is followed by an engagement with the diversity of devotional expressions of Islam, through studies of art, poetry, philosophy, and ethnography. Next, the course will engage the discursive phenomenon of Orientalism and the writings of Orientalists to see when and how these western categories of religion were applied to Muslim beliefs and practices. From there we will examine how Muslims in the modern period responded to modernity and wrote about Islam through similar Orientalist perspectives, which gave rise to political Islamic thought. Finally, we will consider how western political theorists have used these same Orientalist categories of religion to support the theory of an inevitable conflict between the West and Islam in the contemporary period. The course will conclude with criticisms of this "clash of the civilizations" theory and reflections on religion in the aftermath of September 11.

KHC RS 103: History and the Novel
	A series of close readings of major modern works of fiction.  Focus will be on such topics as the novel's effort to speak the truth of history, its status as unintended historical symptom, its occasional conflictual relation with history, its rivalry with music in the effort to distill an essence of time, and the notion of literary history itself.  

KHC ST 111: Studio I
	The studios foster writing, research, and quantitative skills by exploring fundamental ethical, aesthetic, and social issues. They focus on the themes and problems raised by provocative modernist texts drawn from literature, film, psychology, philosophy, and the arts.  

KHC ST 112: Studio II
	The studios foster writing, research, and quantitative skills by exploring  fundamental ethical, aesthetic, and social issues. They focus on the themes and  problems raised by provocative modernist texts drawn from literature, film,  psychology, philosophy, and the arts.
KHC UC 103: Anger
	If Homer's Iliad is the first work of Western literature, as it well may be,  then the first word of Western literature is "anger."  Homer begins his epic  with a particular word for anger, "mênis"--it is but one of several ancient  Greek words for this emotion, and means something like righteous anger,  righteous indignation.  That word, and Homer's famous portrayal of its meaning  and effects, will inaugurate our seminar.  Our topic is, in short, just this:  anger.  What is it?  How to understand it?  Is it a good thing to feel, or is it  to be suppressed on grounds of irrationality, of its destructiveness, of its  connection with possibly flawed quasi-moral notions such as honor?  We have all  felt anger, to the point that it seems to be an emotion intimately familiar to  us.   And yet we have all wondered at his power and nature, and about its  morality.  Anger certainly seems to be an extraordinarily prevalent and  influential emotion at all levels of human life.  		

KHC VA 101: Art for the City
	Visual Art is a universal language where diverse areas of professional  specialization can intersect and find a new voice and way of speaking to many  people instead of an esoteric and isolated few. Significant social, political,  and moral issues of our time require the ability to think from multiple points  of view. This ability can be developed into a visionary skill, which in turn can  be embodied in enduring and powerful forms of artistic communication. In this  course students will examine the ways that visual art embodies contemporary  issues and how these issues relate to content found in the liberal arts study  disciplines including The Social Sciences, The Natural Sciences, and Life  Sciences. This course will include a diverse range of contemporary practices in  many art forms that we will discuss as a group through frank discourse. We will  investigate the impact of visual arts on diverse domains of 'real world'  industries and communities locally in the Boston Area and compare these with  projects made worldwide. We will do this through lecture presentations, peer to  peer dialogue, student to professional dialogue and research. The course will  culminate with individual illustrated reports in the form of online portfolios. 		

KHC XL 101: Global Shakespeares
	A Kuwaiti playwright, in the aftermath of 9/11, casts Hamlet as a jihadi  terrorist and Ophelia as a suicide bomber.  Hollywood directors set Othello and  Taming of the Shrew adaptations in American high schools.  The College Board, as  it does almost every year, includes a Shakespeare essay on the AP English  Literature exam.   What can these diverse events tell us about the cultures that  produce them and the plays that inspire them?  Why do contemporary writers feel  the need to parrot and parody "Shakespeare," and how much of this activity is  about Shakespeare at all? This seminar provides an introduction to reading and  writing about Shakespeare's plays.  But it also takes a step back to consider  Shakespeare as a phenomenon.  Among others we'll look at feminist Shakespeare,  postcolonial and nationalist Shakespeare, and sci-fi Shakespeare.  Beyond  learning about particular offshoots and adaptations, the deeper point is to make  sure you never read a "Great Book" the same way again. 		

