CFA AR 295: Visual Arts: Painting 1
	Study of the painter's language and modes of expression: color and paint manipulation, illusion and organization of form and space, and surface order. Studio work, lectures, and discussions. Not applicable to the BFA degree. 4.0 credits.		

CFA AR 321: Sculpture Studios
	Problems in clay or plaster. Examination of the compositional and design possibilities in figurative and abstract form as a preparation for completion of a lifesized figure study. Fundamentals of armature building and instruction for casting completed clay projects in plaster.		

CFA AR 322: Sculpture Studios
           			This final studio aims to help the students' natural artistic abilities reach their fullest potential by stressing professional habits, creativity, and standards of workmanship.  The goal of this course is to help students make significant strides toward becoming working sculptors outside the academic environment. Students will develop work through criticism, dialogue, and engagement with art history and contemporary sculpture.  Students will use the sculptural language to communicate their own ideas through a series of individual compositions working towards their final thesis exhibition and a portfolio of their works.  		

CFA AR 325: Sculpture Studios Figure
	Further scaled and life-sized work from the figure. Individual projects done in clay, wax, and plaster with an emphasis on personal imagery. Work in high and low relief. Advanced armature building and plastercasting techniques. 		

CFA AR 326: Sculpture Studios
	This final studio aims to help the students' natural artistic abilities reach their fullest potential by stressing professional habits and standards of workmanship. The goal of this course is to help students make significant strides toward being working sculptors outside the academic environment. Sculpture is one of the visual languages of plastic forms; in this class, we use the human figure as a vehicle to better understand the fundamentals of organic forms, proportion, and balance. Students will use this experience to communicate their own ideas through a series of individual compositions working towards their final thesis exhibition, and later create a portfolio of their works.   		

CFA AR 327: Sculpture Techniques 1
	This course will attempt to provide an understanding of basic mold types, the skills required to make basic molds and a rudimentary knowledge of different casting materials. The course will experiment with different mold types to duplicate a form in a variety of casting materials. Plaster waste molds and plaster piece molds will be made, as well as a basic rubber mold. These molds will be used for casting in different materials, including: hydro-cal, hydro-stone, Design-Cast, Fast-Cast cement and wax. Course will include a field trip to a local bronze art foundry and lost-wax bronze casting will be discussed.		

CFA AR 329: Contemporary Issues Semester 1
	Study of problems of pictorial structure and organization in a variety of stylistic procedures. Emphasis on development of compositions from preparatory sketches and studies. Seminars and lectures.		

CFA AR 331: Contemporary Issues Semester 2
	Advanced study of problems of pictorial structure and organization. Individual projects to be developed in consultation with the instructor. Seminars and lectures.		

CFA AR 332: Snr Ptg Seminar
	This course description is currently under construction.		

CFA AR 337: Welding
	An introduction to the construction of steel sculpture produced through oxy-gas and arc welding(mig and stick). Students work with some forging and machine shop practices.  A strong emphasis on safety and proper equipment use.		

CFA AR 338: Welding
	This course is an introduction to the construction of steel sculpture. While learning all safety procedures in the use of shop tools and equipment, students will produce artworks using oxy-fuel, electrode and MIG welding.  Emphasis is on exploring the expressive potential of sculptural form in steel.  2.0 credits.		

CFA AR 341: Painting Studios
	Painting from still life; the human portrait and figure; or imagination. Emphasis on sound spatial structures, synthesis of drawing and painting, and further mastery of technique. 		

CFA AR 342: Painting Studios
	A continuation of CFA AR341. Painting from still life; the human portrait and figure; or imagination. Emphasis on sound spatial structures, synthesis of drawing and painting, and further mastery of technique. 4.0 credits.		

CFA AR 345: Senior Painting Studios
	Work from figure, memory, landscape, and objects, stressing personal expression and evolving significant forms and symbols. Concentration on individual projects. 		

CFA AR 346: Senior Paint Studios
	A continuation of CFA AR345. Work from figure, memory, landscape, and objects, stressing personal expression and evolving significant forms and symbols. Concentration on individual projects. 6.0 credits. 		

CFA AR 361: Elementary Methods of Art Education (4 credits; fall semester)
	From the kinesthetic experiences of rhythmic movement experienced by very young children to the development of individual symbol systems to develop a personal artistic language, this course provides an introduction to the methodology of teaching art to children in grades pre K-8.  It aims to help students develop a personal philosophy of teaching and to translate evidence and theory into strategies that support children's learning in the visual arts.  Topics of study include the artistic development of children in relation to cognitive, emotional, linguistic, and social growth; approaches to studio pedagogy and general communication skills; and lesson planning that addresses voluntary and mandated national, state, and local district curriculum standards.  Drawing in the Galleries is a pre-practicum Saturday program offered one or two times during the fall by the Department of Art Teacher and Museum Education. Students who are taking this course engage K-8 grade level learners from Boston metropolitan area elementary schools in producing art work that is thematically aligned with current exhibitions in University galleries.  		

CFA AR 362: Secondary Methods of Art Education (4 credits; spring semester)
	This course is designed to acquaint the learner with the role of an art educator in the secondary setting.  Art content and concepts are used to teach the ways in which the design of studio learning experiences can enhance students' artistic, creative, and aesthetic development.  The cognitive, socio-cultural, and physical characteristics of pre-adolescent and adolescent learners that impact sound instructional methodology and planning as perceived by the school, the student(s), and the teacher are considered. 		

CFA AR 365: Art Education Practicum K-8 (2 credits; fall for grads; spring for four-year students)
	This elementary practicum offers an opportunity for art education majors to student teach grade levels Pre-K-9.  The student collaborates with the Head of the Art Teacher and Museum Education program to identify a certified visual arts cooperating teacher in a Boston metropolitan area school where student teaching can be completed during eight consecutive weeks.  A supervising teacher, assigned by the program Head, visits the student teacher to make four or more official visits.  Three visits are for the purpose of formal observations.  The third and final observation also includes an evaluation with comments from all three participants in the process:  the student, the cooperating teacher, and the supervising teacher.  Paperwork is generated that is be filed by the University and sent forward to the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education that documents the fulfillment of requirements that may lead to teacher certification.    The first two weeks of the practicum consist of aiding and observing the cooperating teacher and other teachers in the school.  During the second two weeks of the practicum, the student assumes one-third of the cooperating teacher's full responsibilities.  The third two weeks of the practicum the student teacher assumes two-thirds of the cooperating teacher's full responsibilities.  The student teacher assumes all responsibilities assigned to the cooperating teacher during the final two weeks of the practicum.    300 hours of attendance are required; 150/300 hours the student teacher must be fully responsible for studio teaching. 		

CFA AR 366: Practicum 5-12 (2 credits; fall for graduate students; spring for four-year students)
	This secondary practicum offers an opportunity for art education majors to student teach grade levels 5-12.  The student collaborates with the Head of the Art Teacher and Museum Education program to identify a certified visual arts cooperating teacher in a Boston metropolitan area school where student teaching will be completed during eight consecutive weeks.  A supervising teacher, assigned by the program Head, visits the student teacher to make four or more official visits.  Three visits are for the purpose of formal observations.  The third and final observation also includes an evaluation with comments from all three participants in the process:  the student, the cooperating teacher, and the supervising teacher.  Paperwork is generated that will be filed by the University and sent forward to the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education that documents the fulfillment of requirements that may lead to teacher certification.    The first two weeks of the practicum consist of aiding and observing the cooperating teacher and other teachers in the school.  During the second two weeks of the practicum, the student assumes one-third of the cooperating teacher's full responsibilities.  The third two weeks of the practicum the student teacher assumes two-thirds of the cooperating teacher's full responsibilities.  The student teacher assumes all responsibilities assigned to the cooperating teacher during the final two weeks of the practicum.    300 clock hours are required; 150/300 hours the student teacher must be fully responsible for studio teaching. 		

CFA AR 381: Junior Graphic Design Fall: Audience, Authorship
	Junior graphic design exercises a student's knowledge of graphic design fundamentals--form development and communication strategies--to solve more complex design problems. Variables such as audience, context, authorship and issues relevant to contemporary practice will be investigated and discussed. Context driven platforms for communication will be explored as students consider how to reach both narrow and broad audiences across multiple mediums.		

CFA AR 121: Sculpture 1
	 Introduction to sculpture: the study of three-dimensional form and spatial organization. Students will learn the basic principles of sculpture and learn to communicate their own ideas through a series of original compositions. Students will will learn various sculpture techniques with a large selection of materials. Class is designed to help students understand the interplay of form and will involve translating drawings/ sketches into three dimensions. Class will include the study of sculpture in a historical and contemporary context. 		

CFA AR 123: Foundation Design: Introductory Principles, Practices
	This is an introductory course where you will learn the basic principles of design, composition, form making and color theory. We will examine each of these topics holistically, beginning with their historical origination, contemporary application and finally in the context of your own artistic practice. Two- and three-dimensional solutions will be explored. Projects and class meetings will be structured to help you develop a design process and critique skills. The goal of this course is to provide a rigorous understanding of these foundational principles and skills which will then serve as a strong base for all future visual arts course work. Recommended for freshmen intending to major in Graphic Design; open to School of Visual Art freshmen and sophomores. 2 credits. 3 teaching contact hours per week. Spring semester. 		

CFA AR 131: Drawing 1- Majors
	Drawing based on analysis and observation. Study of perception and proportion to establish spatial and volumetric implications. Use of line, shape and value in the context of visual description of various motifs, still life, landscape and the human figure.		

CFA AR 132: Drawing 1 (contd)
           			A continuation of CFA AR131. Drawing based on observation and analysis. Study of perception and proportion to establish spatial and volumetric implications. Use of line, shape and value in the context of visual descriptions of various motifs, still life, landscape and the human figure. 4.0 credits.		

CFA AR 141: Painting 1
	This studio course emphasizes 2-d composition and direct painting in oil.  Exercises in representing still life, interior, and portrait introduce basic principles of drawing, composition, and color interaction.  Working with specific limited color palettes acquaints the student with systems of color proportion and their role in creating a believable pictorial space and color light.  Exercises in color mixing, preparing supports, and caring for tools and equipment, introduce technical and craft considerations. Individual and group critiques, slide presentations, and occasional assigned readings complement regular studio class meetings. 4.0 Credits		

CFA AR 192: Intro to Drawing
	An introductory class for non majors to explore materials and methods of descriptive drawing. No previous experience required.   2 cr.		

CFA AR 193: Visual Arts Drawing
	A studio course that introduces the student to the materials and methods of descriptive drawing. The sequence of study is devoted primarily to working from the human figure, but there is also some work done from still-life subjects and from the imagination. Class assignments are related to analyses of master drawings. Two three-hour studio sessions each week. Preference given to students who have completed CFA AR 191. Not applicable to the BFA degree 4.0 Credits.		

CFA AR 221: Sculpture 2
	Students will be challenged to improve upon skills learned in Sculpture I, with more emphasis on new techniques and various materials as well as investigating how to communicate ideas through form. Students will sculpt from direct observation, and create a series of original compositions. Class will involve study of sculpture throughout history as it relates to students' own works and contemporary art as a whole. 		

CFA AR 222: Time Bsd Sculpt
	This course description is currently under construction.		

CFA AR 225: Sophomore Graphic Design Fall: Form-Making, Communication
	Sophomore graphic design focuses on form making and conceptual problem solving. Imagemaking techniques will be explored and integrated into graphic design contexts. Conceptual problem solving will be examined according to how forms suggest meaning. A student is expected to build upon the skills developed during foundation year to generate innovative and inventive form in both analog and digital formats. Static and dynamic design solutions will be explored.		

CFA AR 226: Sophomore Graphic Design Spring: Form, Communication
	Students will investigate how ideas and messages can be interpreted visually through a variety of projects. Form--content relationships will be the context for all projects. Students will study the broad concepts of denotation and connotation through projects including information design, communication through proxy and juxtaposition and communication through symbols, metaphor and metonymy. Static and dynamic design solutions will be explored.Open to undergraduate sophomore graphic design students. This is a required course for graphic design majors.		

CFA AR 236: Anatomy and Figure Drawing
           			Drawing analysis of the human figure with emphasis on anatomical structure; study of the skeleton and muscle groups as they affect volume and surface definition.  Drawing from the living model, prepared skeleton, and anatomical casts; as well as compositional work from memory. 		

CFA AR 238: Drawing Concepts
           			Discussion of a broad range of drawing issues, including drawing from memory, and from secondary sources.  Introduction of subjects explored in non-representational drawing traditions.  Drawing process will be emphasized through a study of drawing media- such as water-based inks and paints, collage, and pastel- to address both aesthetic and technical concerns. 4.0 credits.		

CFA AR 239: Figure Drawing
           			The focus of this class will be to teach students to think and understand the principles of drawing as a visual language. Class will involve an in-depth study of the human figure. Students will make a series of drawings and sketches in a variety of mediums, including graphite, charcoal, contÃ©, ink, etc. Students will study from a live model, and will use the human figure as a vehicle to better understand the fundamentals of organic form, proportion, and balance. 		

CFA AR 241: Painting II
	This studio course emphasizes direct painting in oil. Exercises in representing still life, landscape, portrait, and figure elaborate principles of drawing, composition, color, and technique. Discussions of historical color systems for representing light and shadow, and assignments with  limited color palettes will introduce dialogue concerning both perceptual and conceptual approaches to representational painting.  Individual and group critiques, demonstrations and presentations, museum and gallery visits, and selected readings complement the regular studio class meetings. 		

CFA AR 242: Painting 3
           			Painting from life in oil and other techniques. Emphasis on the description of the figure. Work from memory. This is a required course for painting majors.		

CFA AR 250: Introduction to Printmaking
	This survey course introduces a range of printmaking methods including relief, monotype, and basic etching processes. Printmaking is varied, repeatable and tactile, with images printed as unique works, as multiples, or as variations, using an array of processes.  Concepts of drawing, design, color, layering, mark, and space are emphasized.  These skills support the production of independent work within the context of contemporary art and design. Students will build on process, experiment with print media, and think creatively and critically. 4.0 credits		

CFA AR 251: Introduction to Printmaking (2 credits) Spring term
	This survey course introduces the printmaking processes of relief and monotype.  Concepts of design, image development, color layering and experimentation, and markmaking are emphasized.  Students will use these skills to produce independent work, and think creatively.  Open to the University.  		

CFA AR 261: Introduction to Art Education
	This course is designed to introduce students to a range of ideas and philosophies that support teaching art in public education. Participants will be asked to examine and share school art experiences and influences, record personal artistic growth and development, and consider factors that affect classroom methodology.  Strategies include thematic planning, identification of student and teacher characteristics that enhance learning, the observation and evaluation of student artwork, studio processes, and a review of learning styles. Visits are be made to local professional and student exhibitions, and museums.  Aesthetics, culture, learner needs, and curriculum on local, state, and national levels are discussed. 2.0 credits		

CFA AR 382: AR382 Junior Graphic Design Spring: Audience, Authorship
	Students examine design as cultural practice as they explore their own design sensibilities and interests through a sequence of self-authored projects in preparation for senior year. Projects and discussion focus on how narrow and broad social contexts/environments impact the way in which graphic design lives and functions.		

CFA AR 385: Sophomore Type Fall: Rules of Typography
	In this introductory course for sophomore graphic design majors, students will study the fundamentals of typography, from its history and anatomy to organizational structures, legibility and hierarchy. Legibility and hierarchy will be examined with increasing complexity from the letterform, to the word, sentence, paragraph and page. Students will learn characteristics of major type families, how to create and use a typographic grid and to work with type in a dynamic environment.		

CFA AR 386: Sophomore Type Spring: Hierarchy, Composition
	In the second sequence of sophomore typography, students will learn (1)aspects of working with and refining bodies of text, from letter spacing, word spacing and line spacing, (2) basic ideas associated with connotative typography and visible language and (3) how to create a simple typographic system and apply it to a sequence of pages. Students will develop a sensitivity toward defining and controlling multiple typographic hierarchies. Students will explore dynamic typographic variables like rate, pace and sound to express an abstract concept typographically.		

CFA AR 415: Photography 1
	Designed to assist the student in mastering the basic techniques of black-and-white photography, including negative exposure, film development, and print production. Critical evaluation of photographs, relationship of photography to other visual media, and study of both historical and contemporary precedents. 4.0 credits.		

CFA AR 418: Glassblowing
	This course is designed to provide beginning students with a core understanding of glassblowing, fusing/slumping, flame-working, hot-pour casting, and cold working techniques.  The course is intended for students committed to finding their own voice in any medium of expression in contemporary art through critical thought, technique, perseverance, and experimentation.  Students will be expected to demonstrate potential ideas through sketching and/or sculpture in other mediums.  The course will include lecture and research on ancient through contemporary glass making methods.  Students will have allocated class time in all studio shops as well as 3 hours per week of private practice to complete work and assignments.  There is an $80 lab fee for the class, and transportation via T/car to Diablo Glass is the responsibility of the student.  4cr. 		

CFA AR 425: The Artist and the Book (4 credits Spring term)
	By creating artist's books, students explore developing the series image, written text, and spatial and conceptual aspects. Students may work with collage and drawing, photo-based and traditional print forms, and digital and polymer-based letter press processes to produce books.  Studio work will be augmented with visits to the Houghton Library Rare Book Collection and the Fogg Museum. Open to non-majors. 4 cr, 2nd semester. 		

CFA AR 432: Advanced Drawing
	Prereq: CFA AR 231 232. Life drawing; emphasis on figure structure; further development of drawing skills; work from the nude, draped figure, and objects in various media as points of departure toward a personal expression. 2cr, each semester.		

CFA AR 447: Printmaking 1: Etching & Monotype 4 credits Fall term
	This course offers a comprehensive introduction to the intaglio print media -- traditional and contemporary - including etching, aquatint, photo-processes, monotype, and alternative techniques. Printmaking encompasses drawing, design, mark making, multiples, sequences, and overlays, using various material substrates such as metals and plastics. Students are encouraged to master and adapt intaglio techniques as an expressive means for exploring visual intent for their own imagery. Group and individual critiques; emphasis is on image development and technical knowledge. Projects may span media to build a group of related prints. Presentations on the historical and contemporary print and its culture, visiting artists, museum and studio visits provide context.		

CFA AR 448: Printmaking 1: Lithography and Relief 4 credits  Spring term
	This course introduces methods of plate and stone lithography, multiple block layered color relief printing, and monotype used as a developmental tool. It presents print as the expressive means toward exploring visual intent and subject. The intrinsic nature of print involves drawing, creating multiples, opacities and transparencies, varied material substrates, color layering, and sequences and versions -- all can access ideas.  This course is project-based, and projects may bridge media to build a group of related prints. Presentations on the historical and contemporary print and its culture, museum and studio visits provide context.		

CFA AR 451: Printmaking 2 (Fall, variable credit)
	This course offers advanced professional study in printmaking techniques, for students who wish to focus on the print with intensity, as they refine their personal visual statement through workshop practice, critique and the enhancement of critical thinking. Experimentation is encouraged while students develop technical mastery and independent problem solving through print. In addition to demonstrations and hands-on guidance, the course provides an expanded  technical vocabulary. Combined multiple printing applications and experimental media will be an option as well as the opportunity to print at large scale. Introduction to contemporary artists engaged in print practice and contemporary issues, through presentations, field and museum trips, and visiting artists. Variable credit, one or both semesters.		

CFA AR 452: Printmaking 2 (Spring, variable credit)
	This course offers advanced professional study in printmaking techniques, for students who wish to focus on the print with intensity, as they refine their personal visual statement through workshop practice, critique and the enhancement of critical thinking. Experimentation is encouraged while students develop technical mastery and independent problem solving through print. In addition to demonstrations and hands-on guidance, the course provides an expanded  technical vocabulary. Combined multiple printing applications and experimental media will be an option as well as the opportunity to print at large scale. Introduction to contemporary artists engaged in print practice and contemporary issues, through presentations, field and museum trips, and visiting artists. Variable credit, one or both semesters.		

CFA AR 468: Art Education 3
	This course description is currently under construction.		

CFA AR 470: Ceramics 1
	Introduction to using ceramics as a sculptural medium. Explore traditional and experimental hand-building techniques. Study glaze chemistry. 4.0 credits.		

CFA AR 471: Ceramics 1
			

CFA AR 483: Senior Graphic Design Fall: Collaboration
	Group collaboration and design as an agent for social change are areas that will challenge students to develop their own content, point of view and to learn their audience. Students will work in teams representing a professional studio environment. Students will manage multiple work streams through lead and supportive roles.  Thesis research will complement group activities throughout the fall. Research will begin in fall semester and serve as a launching point for self-directed study during the final semester. 		

CFA AR 484: Senior Graphic Design Spring:  Senior Thesis
	In this culminating semester students will independently develop systems and methodologies for solving real world, pragmatic design problems. Students start by identifying an area of research and discussing its relationship to graphic design. The idea of 'designer as author' will be emphasized through a self-motivated design project that will strengthen individual processes and problem solving capabilities. Upon graduation students are expected to have developed a refined, intelligent, professional-grade body of work.		

CFA AR 487: Junior Type Fall: Denotation, Connotation
	Junior level typography is an advanced examination into the theory and practice of denotative and connotative typography. Students will learn how to design a complex typographic system over a sequence of pages; and how to control complex hierarchal systems as a means of conveying visual language and verbal meaning. Students will gain a deeper understanding of the function of design principles in creating typographic contrast, hierarchy, meaning and expression. Students will address how variables such as rate, pace and sound impact typographic narrative in a time-based context.		

CFA AR 497: Typography 4
	This course description is currently under construction.		

CFA AR 500: Drawing Elect
	This course description is currently under construction.		

CFA AR 502: Branding
	Brand identity is a unique and sustainable symbol that synthesizes big ideas. It works across all media to build awareness and loyalty.  This course will deal with the real world issues and problem-solving for brand identities. Students will develop logos as a point of entry to a brand for a series of assigned hypothetical companies. A creative marketing oriented brief will precede each assignment. Each project will include: applications for stationery; web-site home page look-and-feel; product nomenclature or packaging; and signage (where applicable). Logos include symbols, wordmarks, single letters such as H for Herman Miller, pictorial marks like the Michelin Man and abstract symbols like Chase Manhattan. The creative brief will contain information about the target audience for each assignment. Students must have a good practical knowledge of typography, as it is the key ingredient for this course.  "A good logo should suggest, not explain."    Paul Rand 		

CFA AR 512: Architect Draw
			

CFA AR 515: Digital Photo
	Prereq: CFA AR 415 or equivalent. Digital Photo will acquaint student with the basics of RAW image capture using a digital camera, non-destructive image file management, input and output resolution management, establishment of a digital workflow, adjustment and editing in Adobe Photoshop, fundamentals of color correcting management, digital retouching and high-end archival inkjet printing.		

CFA AR 517: Digital Printmaking: Ink & Pixel 4 credits Spring term
	This course will explore the use of computers and digital printers as a creative tool for art-making, incorporating important cutting edge developments in the field of printmaking - digital imaging, innovative mixed media processes, and combinations with traditional print media.  The course progresses from basic hands-on techniques and aesthetics of fine art digital production with substrate variables, to sections devoted to layered mixed media, 3D and spatial projects, and photo-process techniques that engage the broad landscape of contemporary prints. Students produce a body of works in these media, using Photoshop, wide-format Epson printers, scanners and tablets in addition to traditional printmaking. The course is designed for both graduate and undergraduate students. Design, color, and drawing issues, conceptual and technical skills, critical skills, and process-oriented project development are stressed through demonstrations, assignments, and critiques.		

CFA AR 518: Silkscreen Print 4 Credits
	This course focuses on contemporary fine art silkscreen prints, the incorporation of fluid, solid and digital stenciling methods of silkscreen printing and the use of multiple approaches to the print. Drawing will be emphasized, and studio work will focus on formal visual issues and resolving visual ideas with an originality of approach. Through a coordinated sequence of projects, students will synthesize their conceptual and technical skills with this medium and study the application of hand printmaking.		

CFA AR 521: Site Specific Art
	This elective will be interdisciplinary and open to students in all majors, both in the Visual Arts program and all other schools in the university.  The course aims to instruct students in the professional practice of making site-specific art commissions for public and private clients.  The students will gain professional skills in the development of a site-specific work of art that will  require the utilization of a variety of media, an interdisciplinary approach and team work.  Students will also learn how to work and negotiate with prospective clients who wish to contract site-specific art for particular settings and architectural environments. 4.0 credits.		

CFA AR 526: Video Art
	CFA AR 526 This studio course is an in-depth exploration of video as a contemporary art form. Students will investigate the medium through a series of exercises designed both to develop video production skills and to engage the essential properties of video as an art practice. Screenings, lectures, discussions and brief readings will contextualize the history of video art and experimental film as it developed in relation to other art forms such as painting, sculpture, music, dance, and performance. Students will complete final projects in which they may choose to design and create single channel, multi-screen, installation or web-based works.   4 credits- 6 contact hours a week		

CFA AR 527: Drawing into Animation
	This course provides a convergence of contemporary performance, dance music, new media and visual arts projects that draw artists from across many traditional disciplines. The course will equip students with an understanding of how time based thinking can provide a natural extended practice, translating ideas through story boarding and scripting. Drawing concepts will range from informal sketches to full narrative graphic novels. Stop motion will be taught for sculptural ideas and time-lapse photography for painting and mix media production.  Extensive use of Wacom tablets, mobile app based cameras, and the Adobe Suite will be utilized. This course is meant to bring digital technologies and 4D projects into the traditional studio practice.  4 credits.		

CFA AR 547: Principles of Painting Techniques
	Lectures, studio demonstrations, and workshops concerning materials and techniques for oil painting: selection of tools and studio equipment; preparation of traditional and modern supports and grounds; principles of oil and alkyd painting; properties and interactions of pigments, binding mediums, solvents, and protective coatings; paint-making and tubing procedures, toxicity of materials, safety issues and precautions; introduction to a variety of direct and indirect techniques; presentation of completed artwork, including photographing, varnishing, and framing completed artwork.  Open to undergraduates who have completed Painting II, CFA graduate students, and art history students. 2.0 credits		

CFA AR 559: Contemporary Issues in Art Education (2 credits; fall semester)
	Conceptual frameworks, content, and pedagogical strategies derived from the art world, critical theory, and the fields of art education and education writ large form the basis, in this course, for theoretical and studio inquiry.  A thematic approach is used to consider significant social issues such as personal identity, culture and the popular media, the environment, aging, race, gender, ethnicity and social justice narratives that surround these issues.  Students research artists from the contemporary mainstream and the hiddenstream, and use their life  stories and work as a basis for planning the delivery of pre-K/ 12 studio teaching.		

CFA AR 563: Art Education Elementary Practicum Seminar  (2 credits; fall for graduates and spring for four-year art education majors)
	This course is taken in conjunction with CFA AR 365 or CFA AR 765.  It is a seminar related to the implementation of educational philosophy, goals, and strategies in the elementary level studio classroom.  Practical solutions related to student teaching experiences are discussed and recorded in a sketchbook/journal.		

CFA AR 564: Art Education Secondary Practicum Seminar  (2 credits; fall for graduates and spring for four-year art education majors)
	This course is taken in conjunction with CFA AR 366 or CFA AR 766.  It is a seminar related to the implementation of educational philosophy, goals, and strategies in the secondary level studio classroom.  Practical solutions related to student teaching experiences are discussed and recorded in a sketchbook/journal.		

CFA AR 566: Processes and Structures (4 credits; spring semester)
	This course is designed to cause students to be more acutely aware of the visual-expressive resources at their command.  Emphasis is placed on personal inquiry and analytical reflection that enables students to translate artistic knowledge into studio lessons for children.  Students consider the structures that can emerge from working with various studio processes using both two- and three-dimensional materials.  Visual ideas are developed and resolved through coordinated sequences of action and identifying the sources and terms of personal expression.  Portfolio Preparation for High School Juniors is a five-week pre-practicum for students in this course who design and teach lessons on Saturday mornings aimed at helping students prepare artwork conventionally required of potential studio majors for application to college. It is a focused short-term course that is offered to high school juniors attending Boston metropolitan area schools.  This pre-practicum fulfills the 25 pre-student teaching practicum hours required of studio teaching students who intend to apply for teaching certification.  		

CFA AR 567: Teaching Art to Special Populations (2 credits; spring semester)
	 This course is designed to inform the art specialist of some beneficial ways for integrating students with special needs into heterogeneous classroom settings.  Students investigate ways in which the artistic process can be made accessible to all students regardless of their emotional, intellectual, or physical capacities as required by State and national laws. 		

CFA AR 572: Internship
	This course is for juniors and seniors pursuing an internship for college credit. Internship hours range from 80-150 hours during the course of 6-14 weeks. Students meet in consultation with an Internship and Faculty advisor for critiques of internship work. A final presentation of work is required at the end of the semester. 2.0 credits.		

CFA AR 573: 3D Design & Animat
	This course is a project-based introduction to 3D design and animation using state-of-the-art Alias Maya software.  Students are introduced to the basic concepts and techniques of 3D modeling and animation.  Short creative-problem-solving exercises step students through basic design concepts while introducing the technology.  Subsequent projects explore application areas and media and give the students an opportunity to develop their 3D "voices." 2 cr.		

CFA AR 576: Motion Graphics
	Introduction to methods and processes of creating motion graphics for broadcast and cinema. The focus is on story-telling in a time-based context through ambient and linear narratives. Students will consider how design elements--such as type, image, framing, pacing, rhythm, sequencing and sound--influence time-based narratives. Students will broaden their individual aesthetic by exploring a variety of mediums from analog to digital formats and animate with Flash and After Effects.		

CFA AR 577: Editorial Publication
	This is a hands-on, project-based introduction to editorial and publication design. Both form and content, with emphasis on use of the grid as an organizing creative principle will be utilized. Typography and image will be discussed as students design, print, and bind their own books. Students may select a topic of personal interest and explore various materials and methodologies.		

CFA AR 580: History of Graphic Design
	A survey of graphic design history from the time of Gutenberg until the present. Emphasis is placed on the growth of graphic design as a communicative, expressive, and artistic medium. Lectures are accompanied by slides, and there are required assignments and examinations throughout the semester. In addition, each student prepares a written and illustrated report on a subject of his or her choice related to graphic design history. 4 cr, 1st semester.		

CFA AR 581: Web Design
	This course addresses the principles, problems, and applications of web design. HTML and CSS will be taught, giving the students the ability to control the design and presentation of online information in its most basic form. Emphasis is on content, usability, site architecture, navigation and interactivity.1st and 2nd semester.		

CFA AR 582: Directed Study Graphic Design
	Graduate only. With permission of faculty.		

CFA AR 587: Information Design
	This course explores ways of graphically structuring information. Students will learn process, organize and ultimately symbolize and visualize complex and quantitative information. Focus is on information graphics that reveal multiple hierarchies of data, through which new relationships are made visible. Representation (determining an appropriate form language for an idea) and narrative structure (main organizing principle) are the frameworks that will be studied in order to create precise, clear, legible and efficient communication. Open to undergraduate and graduate graphic design students. 2 cr. 		

CFA AR 593: Design Lab
	This course description is currently under construction.		

CFA AR 601: Grad Typography
			

CFA AR 621: Site-spec. Art
	This graduate level elective will be interdisciplinary and open to students in all majors, both in the Visual Arts program and all other schools in the university. The course aims to instruct students in the professional practice of making site-specific art commissions for public and private clients. The students will gain professional skills in the development of a site-specific work of art that will require the utilization of a variety of media, an interdisciplinary approach and team work. Students will also learn how to work and negotiate with prospective clients who wish to contract site-specific art for particular settings and architectural environments. Credit amount varies.		

CFA AR 681: Web Design
	This course addresses the principles, problems, and applications of web design. HTML and CSS will be taught, giving the students the ability to control the design and presentation of online information in its most basic form. Emphasis is on content, usability, site architecture, navigation and interactivity.1st and 2nd semester.		

CFA AR 747: Advanced Printmaking (Variable credit)
	This course offers intensive professional study in printmaking techniques to students who wish to focus on the print as they expand their personal visual statement, through workshop practice, critique and the refinement of critical thinking. Students may also add basic techniques to their vocabulary. Experimentation is encouraged while students develop technical skill and independent problem solving through print. In addition to demonstrations and hands-on guidance, the opportunity to combine printing applications and experimental media will be an option, as well as the opportunity to print at large scale. The class will be introduced to contemporary artists engaged in print practice through presentations, field trips to exhibitions and visiting artists.		

CFA AR 765: Practicum K-9 (2 credits; fall for grads; spring for four-year students)
	This elementary practicum offers an opportunity for art education majors to student teach grade levels Pre-K-9.  The student collaborates with the Head of the Art Teacher and Museum Education program to identify a certified visual arts cooperating teacher in a Boston metropolitan area school where student teaching can be completed during eight consecutive weeks.  A supervising teacher, assigned by the program Head, visits the student teacher to make four or more official visits.  Three visits are for the purpose of formal observations.  The third and final observation also includes an evaluation with comments from all three participants in the process:  the student, the cooperating teacher, and the supervising teacher.  Paperwork is generated that is be filed by the University and sent forward to the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education that documents the fulfillment of requirements that may lead to teacher certification.    The first two weeks of the practicum consist of aiding and observing the cooperating teacher and other teachers in the school.  During the second two weeks of the practicum, the student assumes one-third of the cooperating teacher's full responsibilities.  The third two weeks of the practicum the student teacher assumes two-thirds of the cooperating teacher's full responsibilities.  The student teacher assumes all responsibilities assigned to the cooperating teacher during the final two weeks of the practicum.    300 hours of attendance are required; 150/300 hours the student teacher must be fully responsible for studio teaching. 		

CFA AR 766: Practicum 5-12 (2 credits; fall for graduate students; spring for four-year students)
	This secondary practicum offers an opportunity for art education majors to student teach grade levels 5-12.  The student collaborates with the Head of the Art Teacher and Museum Education program to identify a certified visual arts cooperating teacher in a Boston metropolitan area school where student teaching will be completed during eight consecutive weeks.  A supervising teacher, assigned by the program Head, visits the student teacher to make four or more official visits.  Three visits are for the purpose of formal observations.  The third and final observation also includes an evaluation with comments from all three participants in the process:  the student, the cooperating teacher, and the supervising teacher.  Paperwork is generated that will be filed by the University and sent forward to the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education that documents the fulfillment of requirements that may lead to teacher certification.    The first two weeks of the practicum consist of aiding and observing the cooperating teacher and other teachers in the school.  During the second two weeks of the practicum, the student assumes one-third of the cooperating teacher's full responsibilities.  The third two weeks of the practicum the student teacher assumes two-thirds of the cooperating teacher's full responsibilities.  The student teacher assumes all responsibilities assigned to the cooperating teacher during the final two weeks of the practicum.    300 clock hours are required; 150/300 hours the student teacher must be fully responsible for studio teaching. 		

CFA AR 767: Art Ed Clinical
	This course description is currently under construction.		

CFA AR 821: Graduate Sculpture 1
	Concentration on the development of a personal mode of sculptural expression. Students will work on an individual body of work and research materials and their practical application. 		

CFA AR 822: Graduate Sculpture 1
	A continuation of CFA AR821. Concentration on the development of a personal mode of sculptural expression. Students will work on an individual body of work and research materials and their practical application. 		

CFA AR 823: Graduate Sculpture 2
	Further concentration on developing a personal direction in sculpture. Students will work to prepare an individual body of work in preparation for the thesis exhibition at the end of the year.		

CFA AR 824: Graduate Sculpture 2
	A continuation of CFA AR823. Further concentration on developing a personal direction in sculpture. Students will work to prepare an individual body of work in preparation for the thesis exhibition at the end of the year.		

CFA AR 841: Graduate Painting 1
	Intensified professional study; emphasis on an original contemporary statement; picture structure and interpretation of concepts, forms, and symbols in today's art. 3 cr, each semester.		

CFA AR 842: Graduate Painting 1
	A continuation of CFA AR841. Intensified professional study; emphasis on an original contemporary statement; picture structure and interpretation of concepts, forms, and symbols in today's art. 3cr, each semester.		

CFA AR 843: Seminar and Discussion 1
	Planning, execution, and discussion of comprehensive original projects in various media and techniques; contemporary trends in art and their relation to the art of the past; problems of teaching painting. Students submit original work on completion of course. 2 cr, each semester.		

CFA AR 844: Grad Sem&Dis 1
	This course description is currently under construction.		

CFA AR 845: Grad Sem/Disc 2
	This course description is currently under construction.		

CFA AR 846: Painting Seminar and Discussion 2
	Discussion and execution of original projects; various aesthetic problems concerning the contemporary artist. 2 cr, each semester.		

CFA AR 847: Graduate Painting 2
	Continuation of Graduate Painting 1; emphasizes the work to be presented as the student's exhibit thesis. This group of paintings is developed in individual consultation with the graduate faculty and is presented in a major exhibit at the end of the second year of graduate study. 3 cr, each semester.		

CFA AR 848: Graduate Painting 2
	Continuation of Graduate Painting 1; emphasizes the work to be presented as the student's exhibit thesis. This group of paintings is developed in individual consultation with the graduate faculty and is presented in a major exhibit at the end of the second year of graduate study. 3 cr, each semester.		

CFA AR 861: Pro/Seminar (2 credits; spring semester)
	Art education student teachers witness faculty and guests who address their areas of expertise, and engage a learning community comprised of peers and professionals in meaningful, substantive dialogue.  Students demonstrate the value of engaging in constructive conversations with people of differing opinions; show the commitment of BU, the College of Fine Arts, the School of Visual Arts, and the Department of Art Teacher and Museum Education to the life of the mind of those in the art community; and invite the larger community to see the results of studio teaching and learning.  Graduate students in the studio teaching program take this course in conjunction with CFA AR 767 and undergraduate art education majors take this course in conjunction with CFA AR 365/366. 		

CFA AR 864: Elementary Methods of Art Education (4 credits; fall semester)
	From the kinesthetic experiences of rhythmic movement experienced by very young children to the development of individual symbol systems to develop a personal artistic language, this course provides an introduction to the methodology of teaching art to children in grades pre K-8.  It aims to help students develop a personal philosophy of teaching and to translate evidence and theory into strategies that support children's learning in the visual arts.  Topics of study include the artistic development of children in relation to cognitive, emotional, linguistic, and social growth; approaches to studio pedagogy and general communication skills; and lesson planning that addresses voluntary and mandated national, state, and local district curriculum standards.  Drawing in the Galleries is a pre-practicum Saturday program offered one or two times during the fall by the Department of Art Teacher and Museum Education. Students who are taking this course engage K-8 grade level learners from Boston metropolitan area elementary schools in producing art work that is thematically aligned with current exhibitions in University galleries.  		

CFA AR 865: Art Curric Plan
	This course description is currently under construction.		

CFA AR 866: Secondary Methods of Art Education (4 credits; spring semester)
	This course is designed to acquaint the learner with the role of an art educator in the secondary setting.  Art content and concepts are used to teach the ways in which the design of studio learning experiences can enhance students' artistic, creative, and aesthetic development.  The cognitive, socio-cultural, and physical characteristics of pre-adolescent and adolescent learners that impact sound instructional methodology and planning as perceived by the school, the student(s), and the teacher are considered.		

CFA AR 881: Graduate Graphic Design 1
	Comprehensive exercises in graphic design leading to the solution of advanced visual problems through a structured curriculum of both theoretical and practical studies. In addition to computer-aided graphic design, traditional methods, such as letterpress and photography are emphasized. The program is conceived to enable graduates to function in a constantly changing and expanding field. 3 cr, each semester.		

CFA AR 882: Graduate Graphic Design 1
	A continuation of CFA AR 881. Comprehensive exercises in graphic design leading to the solution of advanced visual problems through a structured curriculum of both theoretical and practical studies. In addition to computer-aided graphic design, traditional methods, such as letterpress and photography are emphasized. The program is conceived to enable graduates to function in a constantly changing and expanding field. 3 cr, each semester.		

CFA AR 883: Graduate Graphic Design 2
	A continuation of Graduate Graphic Design 1, emphasizing the thesis-an advanced and extensive individual project proposed by the student in consultation with the graphic design faculty. The thesis project is explored in depth and presented in a major exhibit at the end of the second year. Independent contact with faculty members is stressed. 3 cr, each semester.		

CFA AR 884: Graduate Graphic Design 2
	A continuation of CFA AR 883. Emphasizes the thesis - an advanced and extensive individual project proposed by the student in consultation with the graphic design faculty. The thesis project is explored in depth and presented in a major exhibit at the end of the second year. Independent contact with faculty members is stressed. Offered each semester. 3.0 credits.		

CFA AR 988: Continuing Study Certification
			

CFA ME 081: Orff Schulw 1
			

CFA ME 082: Orff Schulw 2
			

CFA ME 083: Orff Schulw 3
			

CFA ME 171: Brass Class
	Familiarization of brass instruments (trumpet, trombone, French horn, baritone, trombone and tuba). Basic performance skills as well as pedagogical techniques for teaching brass instruments to beginners will be developed. Knowledge of methodologies and maintenance of brass instruments will also be developed. Music reading skills required. 1 cr. 		

CFA ME 172: Percussion Class
	Familiarization of percussion instruments (snare drum, marimba, timpani, auxiliary percussion instruments). Basic performance skills as well as pedagogical techniques for teaching percussion instruments to beginners will be developed. Knowledge of methodologies and maintenance of percussion instruments will also be developed. Music reading skills required. 1 cr. 		

CFA ME 173: Woodwind Class
	Familiarization of the woodwind instruments (clarinet, flute, oboe, bassoon, and saxophone). Basic performance skills, as well as pedagogical techniques for woodwind instruments to beginners will be developed. Knowledge of methodologies and maintenance of woodwind instruments will also be developed. Music reading skills required. 1.0 credit. 		

CFA ME 174: String Class
	Familiarization with string instruments. Basic performance skills as well as pedagogical techniques for teaching string instruments to beginners will be developed. Knowledge of methodologies and maintenance of the instruments will also be developed. Music reading skills required. 1 cr. 		

CFA ME 201: Art of Teaching 1
	This first in the sequence of music education "methods" courses examines the personal attributes and professional skills of music teachers whose work with children is categorized as "artful." Through readings, films, discussions, reflections, and sustained teaching experiences with young children in an urban school, students will be introduced to the many roles that music educators play while simultaneously reflecting on personal motivations for becoming a music teacher. This course emphasizes acquisition of instructional "moves" and strategies as it engages students in becoming astute, analytical, and empathic observers of teachers and students in classroom settings. Issues of poverty and social class as they relate to music teaching and learning are examined.  Weekly filed work experiences (sustained internship) help the student to gain confidence in dealing with children in urban elementary school settings. Weekly singing in class on campus will help students become more confident vocalists as they build a repertoire of songs for use in schools.  All students will begin construction of an e-portfolio, regularly and independently, adding artifacts produced in this course, in their internships, and through their musical studies. The e-portfolio will be presented for music education faculty and peer review in the latter part of the second semester of this course.		

CFA ME 202: Art of Teaching 2
	This course is a continuation of ME201/601 Art of Teaching 1  Acquisition of additional instructional skills related to expectations, classroom climate, use of time, classroom space, routines, teaching momentum, and learners with special needs. Principles of learning and classroom behavior management techniques are observed and practiced including introduction to music teaching pedagogy and lesson planning, analysis of teacher attributes, teaching techniques through a sustained internship in a Boston high school, weekly written reflections, and class discussions. Continued examination and analysis of the attributes of artful teaching as portrayed in films about skillful teachers. Weekly fieldwork experiences (sustained internship) help the student to gain confidence in dealing with urban students at the secondary level. Weekly singing in class helps students to become more confident vocalists as they build a repertoire of songs for use in schools. Sophomores will complete e-portfolios, regularly adding artifacts created in this course. Portfolios will be presented before the music education faculty in the latter part of this semester.  		

CFA ME 261: Jazz 1: Performance & Context
	Open to non-music majors and music majors for elective credit with advisor approval. Introduction to the American musical art form through recordings, videos, discussion, concerts and workshops; also an introduction to the role of jazz in education. 2 cr. 		

CFA ME 262: Jazz 2: Performance & Context
	A continued study of the major movements of jazz, with emphasis on the role of jazz in education. 2 cr.		

CFA ME 303: Elementary Methods
	Philosophy and goals of the general music program from kindergarten through grade 9. Techniques and experiences employed to implement the development of musical concepts and skills; activities and teaching materials related to the musical development of the child.		

CFA ME 304: Secondary Methods
	Philosophical foundations and objectives of music programs in grades 5 through 12. Development of teaching materials and presentation of representative lessons; techniques of analysis and evaluation. 4.0 credits.		

CFA ME 381: Mus for SP Lrnr
			

CFA ME 405: Choral Methods
	Survey and analysis of music for large and small ensembles including boys' and girls' glee clubs, mixed chorus, and choir of all levels of performance. Emphasis is placed on conducting and teaching music of the various style periods. 2.0 credits.		

CFA ME 406: Instrumental Methods
	Study of techniques employed in the teaching of instruments; analysis of sequential experiences for beginning and intermediate instrumental students in homogeneous and heterogeneous classes; development, adaptation, and composing of materials and literature for instrumental instruction. 2.0 credits.		

CFA ME 407: Music Technology in Schools
	Function and use of music education technology; development and use of computer, audio, video, and visual materials for the teaching of music. 2.0 credits.		

CFA ME 410: Practicum Seminar
	Required for undergraduate and graduate Music Education students registered for Practicum.  First semester seminar topics will include development of an educational philosophy, resume preparation, job interviewing, and classroom behavior management.    Second semester seminar topics include a refresher on job interviewing, assessment, public and parental relations, and music program advocacy.   Case study sessions will help seniors analyze complicated classroom situations.  Students will be guided through the teacher licensure process and readied for entry into the music education job market. 0 cr. 2 semesters. 		

CFA ME 411: Practicum 1 K-5
	Pre-K-5. Supervised student teaching in grades K-5, weekly seminar, individual conferences with University supervisor. Six weeks; minimum 150 hours required. 4 cr. each semester.		

CFA ME 412: Practicum 2 5-8
	Supervised student teaching in 5-8; weekly seminar, minimum of 150 clock hours; weekly seminar; individual conferences with University supervisor. 4 cr. each semester.		

CFA ME 413: Practicum 3 8-12
	Supervised student teaching in grades 8 through 12; six weeks, minimum of 150 clock hours; weekly seminar; individual conferences with University supervisor. 4 cr. each semester.		

CFA ME 421: Creativity and Imagination in General Music
	Prereq: CFA MU 361 or permission of instructor.  Students will examine general music instruction through the lenses of higher order thinking, multiple intelligences, and connectivity.  This course will present ways that general music teachers can become reflective practitioners who stimulate their students to interact powerfully and imaginatively with music.  Teaching which provokes inquiry and creativity will be emphasized.  A variety of published and teacher-constructed curriculum materials will be examined, critiqued, and analyzed for their ability to stimulate active student engagement, to anchor core music concepts, to address national and state standards, and to connect music with academic learning.  Students will be challenged to create, compose, experiment, research, and design curriculum materials that are substantive, thought-provoking, vivid, and memorable.  2 cr.		

CFA ME 422: Curriculum Planning for General Music
	Contemporary philosophies and goals of general music; content of the general music program from kindergarten through junior high school; techniques and problems of curriculum development.		

CFA ME 481: Orff Schulw 1
			

CFA ME 482: Orff Schulw 2
			

CFA ME 483: Orff Schulw 3
			

CFA ME 499: Independent Study: Undergraduates
	Prereq: approval of advisor, the faculty member who is to supervise study, and department chairman. Plans must be submitted in advance of registration. (A maximum of 8 semester hours may be counted toward the degree). Open only to undergraduate students. 2-3 cr. 		

CFA ME 561: Teaching Jazz
			

CFA ME 581: Mus for SP Lrnr
			

CFA ME 601: The Art of Teaching 1
	This first in the sequence of music education "methods" courses examines the personal attributes and professional skills of music teachers whose work with children is categorized as "artful." Through readings, films, discussions, reflections, and sustained teaching experiences with young children in an urban school, students will be introduced to the many roles that music educators play while simultaneously reflecting on personal motivations for becoming a music teacher. This course emphasizes acquisition of instructional "moves" and strategies as it engages students in becoming astute, analytical, and empathic observers of teachers and students in classroom settings. Issues of poverty and social class as they relate to music teaching and learning are examined.  Weekly filed work experiences (sustained internship) help the student to gain confidence in dealing with children in urban elementary school settings. Weekly singing in class on campus will help students become more confident vocalists as they build a repertoire of songs for use in schools.  All students will begin construction of an e-portfolio, regularly and independently, adding artifacts produced in this course, in their internships, and through their musical studies. The e-portfolio will be presented for music education faculty and peer review in the latter part of the second semester of this course.		

CFA ME 604: Secondary Methods
	Prereq: CFA MU 659. Philosophy and goals for the music program in grades 5 through 12. Study of the implication of national and state music standards for secondary level program development. Understanding of adolescent thinking and behavior. Understanding of the relationship among general music, choral, and instrumental music instruction at the secondary level. Development of teaching and rehearsal plans as well as assessment strategies. Peer teaching and evaluation of lesson plans. Field Experience: 25 hours of weekly Friday morning group observations of secondary level music teachers or sustained internship in a secondary level music program. 4 cr. 		

CFA ME 605: Choral Methods
	Choral music and teaching methods for large and small school ensembles including children's choirs, adolescent choirs, and mixed and single-gender choirs. Vocal attributes and ranges of all age groups. Development of age-appropriate vocal warm-ups, head voice, and healthy vocal production techniques. Choral literature studied will include unison, SA, SSA, SAB, TTBB, and SATB repertoire. Emphasis on ensemble development, literature selection, concert presentation, and development of a sequential choral program from elementary through high school. 2 cr. 		

CFA ME 606: Instrumental Methods
	Study of techniques employed in the teaching of instruments and instrumental ensembles in school settings. Comparative analysis of instrumental method series and scores for beginning students in homogeneous and heterogeneous class settings. Extension of lesson and ensemble instruction to middle and high school levels. Emphasis on ensemble development, literature selection, concert presentations, and development of a sequential instrumental program from elementary through high school. 2 cr. 		

CFA ME 607: Music Technology in Schools
	Function and use of music education technology; development and use of computer, audio, video, and visual materials for the teaching of music. Graduate students only.		

CFA ME 610: Practicum Seminar
	Required for undergraduate and graduate Music Education students registered for Practicum.  First semester seminar topics will include development of an educational philosophy, resume preparation, job interviewing, and classroom behavior management.    Second semester seminar topics include a refresher on job interviewing, assessment, public and parental relations, and music program advocacy.   Case study sessions will help seniors analyze complicated classroom situations.  Students will be guided through the teacher licensure process and readied for entry into the music education job market. 0 cr. 2 semesters. 		

CFA ME 611: Practicum 1 K-5
	Pre-K-5. Supervised student teaching in grades K-5, weekly seminar, individual conferences with University supervisor. Six weeks; minimum 150 hours required. 4 cr. each semester.		

CFA ME 612: Practicum 2 5-8
	Supervised student teaching in 5-8; weekly seminar, minimum of 150 clock hours; weekly seminar; individual conferences with University supervisor. 4 cr. each semester.		

CFA ME 613: Practicum 3 8-12
	Supervised student teaching in grades 8 through 12; six weeks, minimum of 150 clock hours; weekly seminar; individual conferences with University supervisor. 4 cr. each semester.		

CFA ME 621: Creativity and Imagination in General Music
	Students will examine general music instruction through the lenses of higher oral thinking, multiple intelligences, and connectivity. This course will present ways that general music teachers can become reflective practitioners who stimulate their students to react powerfully and imaginatively to music. Teaching that provokes inquiry and creativity will be emphasized. A variety of published and teacher-constructed curriculum materials will be examined, critiqued, and analyzed for their ability to stimulate active student engagement, to anchor core music concepts, to address national and state standards, and to connect music with academic learning. Students will be challenged to create, compose, experiment, research, and design curriculum materials that are substantive, thought-provoking, vivid, and memorable.  2 cr.		

CFA ME 622: Curriculum Planning for General Music
	Students will study current educational thought on how learners come to understand, value, utilize, transfer, and retain what they learn. Focusing on implementing national and state music standards, students work in cooperative cohorts to develop a three year curriculum sequence of units for general music. The backward planning paradigm and curriculum mapping will assist students in their work. Authentic assessment of achievement will be integrated into all curriculum plans. 2 cr. 		

CFA ME 661: Jazz History and Performance Techniques 1
	Open to non-music majors and music majors for elective credit with advisor approval. Introduction to the American musical art form through recordings, videos, discussion, concerts and workshops; also an introduction to the role of jazz in education. 2 cr.		

CFA ME 662: Jazz History and Performance Techniques 2
	Open to non-music majors and music majors for elective credit with advisor approval. Introduction to the American musical art form through recordings, videos, discussion, concerts and workshops; also an introduction to the role of jazz in education. 2 cr.		

CFA ME 681: Orff Schulw 1
			

CFA ME 682: Orff Schulw 2
			

CFA ME 683: Orff Schulw 3
			

CFA ME 701: Foundations of Music Education I: Philosophy and History
	Introduction to historical and philosophical foundations of music education. An intensive reading and research seminar course in the history of educational thought and practices in music education in the United States from the Colonial Period to modern times. The course has two distinct disciplinary components; historical research and philosophical discourse in music education. 		

CFA ME 702: Foundations of Music Education II: Sociology and Psychology
	The purpose of this course is to critically examine psychological and sociological concepts as they relate to music and education. Topics include key issues and concepts in psychology and sociology; psychology as related to music educational processes; problems encountered in the sociology of music education; and cultural influences that affect both the psychology of the individual and sociological aspects of group dynamics. 4.0 credits.		

CFA ME 711: Introduction to Music Education Research
	Overview of music education research. Research design and methodology to include development of hypotheses, problems and subproblems, qualitative research, survey, observational, causal comparative, experimental, evaluation, and historical research. Ability to understand, interpret, and use research in teaching and learning. Designed primarily for master's degree students. 		

CFA ME 740: Introduction to Music Education Research
	In this course, students become acquainted with a variety of research that informs music education, learn both to critique and apply that research, and develop their scholarly writing skills.  Note:  This course is typically waived for DMA students who have enrolled in a similar course during Master's degree study.		

CFA ME 751: Community Music Perspectives
	Drawing upon the social, cultural, political, and economic milieu including movements in music education, music therapy and ethnomusicology, this course first examines reasons for the growth and development of community music. Students will be asked to trace an aspect of community music that may be considered as part of its heritage and also to evaluate and critique a contemporary community music project through fieldwork. Students will then be in a position to articulate their own vision for community music both as a practicum and as a scholarly pursuit.		

CFA ME 753: Principles of Child Development and Early Education
	The purposes of this course are to 1) introduce students to principles of child development that will guide the provision of music education for young children (birth through age 8) and 2) investigate the landscape of early childhood education and the educational theories that underlie current approaches to early childhood education. Particular emphasis will be placed on the application of concepts to music teaching and learning. Learning activities will include instructor lectures, guest lectures, readings, and discussions. Students will also conduct no fewer than two observations in early childhood settings.		

CFA ME 799: Curriculum Organization in Music Education
	Philosophies and objectives of music in public education; scope and sequence of curriculum appropriate for general choral and instrumental instruction. 4.0 credits.		

CFA ME 873: Policy Research in Music Education
	Exploration of methods and practices in policy research as applied to music education. Emphasis will be placed on application of the concepts learned in class to a policy research project. Topics include critical policy analysis, policy implementation studies, and policy evaluation.  4 cr.  		

CFA ME 874: Critique in Music Education
	Required of all master's candidates who plan to do a thesis. Survey of literature and research in music education; formulation in bibliography; intensive and extensive study in one area by each student, culminating in a project using research technique. May be repeated for credit with consent of instructor. 4.0 credits.		

CFA ME 899: Ind Project/Ds
			

CFA MH 105: Music Appreciation
	Basic materials of music; analysis of masterpieces of music with reference to cultural background; group attendance of concerts with preliminary discussion period. Course does not presuppose a technical knowledge of music. 2 cr.(*)		

CFA MH 106: Music Appreciation
	Survey of music's dynamic interface with culture and society, past and present, including music's relationship to politics, race, religion, and identity. No preq. Open to all students 4 cr.		

CFA MH 201: History & Literature of Music 1
	Undergraduate Prerequisites: CFA Music majors only. Historical survey of music from Antiquity to the end of the Baroque. 3 cr. 1st sem. 		

CFA MH 202: History & Literature of Music 1
	Historical survey of music from Antiquity to the end of the Baroque.1st sem. For College of Arts and Sciences Music majors, or permission of instructor, 4 cr.		

CFA MH 211: History & Literature of Music 2
	Historical survey of music from 1750 to the present, 2nd sem. For CFA Music majors, 3 cr.		

CFA MH 212: History & Literature of Music 2
	Historical survey of music from 1750 to the present. 2nd sem. For College of Arts and Sciences Music majors or permission of instructor., 4 cr.		

CFA MH 232: Jazz Music
	A study of important issues connected with America's original music: the art of improvisation; the role of composition; innovation and tradition; individuality and style; instruments and forms. We also consider controversial questions such as the formation of the roots of jazz, issues of race, and the "neo-classicism" of the 1980s and 1990s. Students will learn how to listen, to appreciate jazz if they are unfamiliar with it, and to deepen their understanding if they already enjoy it. 2 or 4 cr. (*)		

CFA MH 321: Medieval Music
	Prereq: CFA MH 201/202 and 211/212. Special topics in music from the beginnings of chant to 1400, including traditions of chant, early polyphony, secular song, sources, and musical institutions (monastery, convent, cathedral, court, city), 3 cr.		

CFA MH 322: Renaissance Music
	Prereq: CFA MH 201/211 and 202/212. Special topics in music from ca. 1400-1600, including mass, motet, secular vocal, and instrumental repertories, composers and institutions, music and text, humanism, and the relationship between music and Renaissance culture, 3 cr. 		

CFA MH 323: Baroque Music
	Prereq: CFA MH 201/211 and 202/212. Special topics in music from ca. 1600-1750, including examinations of opera, cantata and oratorio, monody, instrumental genres, and composers, from Monteverdi to JS Bach. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 324: Music in the Classical Period
	Prereq: CFA MH201/211 and 202/212. Special topics in music from ca. 1750-1820, dealing mainly with symphonic, chamber, and keyboard music by Haydn and Mozart through Beethoven. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 325: Romantic Music
	Prereq: CFA MH 201/211 and 202/212. Special topics in music from ca. 1820-1900, dealing mainly with orchestral, chamber and piano music, as well as Lieder, opera, program music, and individual or groups of composers, 3 cr.		

CFA MH 326: Music After 1900
	Prereq: CFA MH 201/211 and 202/212. Special topics in orchestral, chamber, solo, and vocal genres from 1900 to the present covering such issues as atonality, neo-classicism, expressionism, the avant-garde, post-modernism, minimalism, technology, etc., and with individual or groups of composers, 3 cr.		

CFA MH 327: Selected Topics in Music History
	Prereq: CFA MH 201/211 and 202/212. Special topics in the history of music, covering a variety of approaches, styles, and periods, from Antiquity through the present. 3 cr.  		

CFA MH 328: Opera
	Prereq: CFA MH201/211 and 202/212. Special topics and surveys in opera history from its beginnings, ca. 1600, to the present, focusing on major works, libretti, productions, and music / text relationships, 3 cr.		

CFA MH 331: Topics in World Music
	No prereq; open to all students. Selected topics concerning non-western music and culture, including colonialism and post-colonialism, orientalism, anthropological perspectives, modernization, transmission, migration, diaspora, and the influence of technology. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 332: Jazz Music
	No prereq; open to all students. A study of issues in, or survey of, jazz from its beginnings to the present, focusing on major performers and recordings, individuality and style, instruments, and form. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 333: Popular Music & Culture
	No prereq; open to all students. Selected topics exploring the relationship between popular music and culture, from American popular song and musical theatre, to worldbeat, blues, R&B, rock, Hip-hop, and techno. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 334: Interdisciplinary Topics in Music History
	No prereq; open to all students. Wide-angled and narrowly-focused topics dealing with music's application to and interaction with other disciplines, including the broader humanities, science, politics, and technology. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 335: Music of Africa
	No prereq; open to all students. A survey of traditional and popular music traditions throughout Sub-Saharan Africa and the diaspora. Emphasis is on music making within its cultural context. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 336: Musical Cultures of the World
	No prereq; open to all students. No prereq; open to all students. A survey of music and musical cultures from around the world, including traditions from Africa, India, Japan, Indonesia, North America, and Latin America. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 341: Masterpieces of Western Music
	Study of selected major works from the Middle Ages to the present day. Works are chosen to illustrate the broad scope of Western musical history. Open to all students except CFA and CAS Music Majors. 		

CFA MH 342: Masterpieces of Opera
	An introduction to the forms and conventions of opera. This class will cover selected works from the Baroque to the present, with excursions to occasional live performances and open rehearsals. Open to all students except CFA and CAS Music Majors. 4 cr.		

CFA MH 343: Beethoven
	An introduction to the life, work, and influence of the composer through representative examples of his symphonies, concertos, sonatas, chamber music, and the opera Fidelio. Open to all students except CFA and CAS Music Majors 4 cr.		

CFA MH 344: Music & Society
	A survey of the relationship between music, culture, and and the society it mirrors, with case studies drawn from Antiquity through contemporary popular music, spanning Western and non-Western traditions 4 cr. 		

CFA MH 351: Music of the Rolling Stones
	This course will provide an in-depth examination of the Rolling Stones and their role within the evolving history of popular culture, with emphasis on understanding their musical styles and influences. Along the way, the relationship between the group and the major trends in rock music will be highlighted. This course is intended for the general university student and neither assumes nor requires previous training in music. 4 cr.		

CFA MH 352: Popular Music: The Beatles
	This course will examine the music of the Beatles in the cultural, social, and musical context of the Sixties. We shall look at the influences that played a part in the formation of their style; the magical interplay of talents among the four musicians; and the special partnership between Lennon and McCartney that led to the creation of some of the most enduring songs of the pop and rock era. This course is intended for the general university student and neither assumes nor requires previous training in music. 3 cr.  		

CFA MH 353: Popular Music: World Beat
	No preqs. This course will explore the distinctive popular music known as "World Beat," including pop music from Africa, Cuba and other parts of the Caribbean, Latin America, and in particular Brazil, Argentina, India, Spain, Portugal, and North America, as well as world beat fusion, film music, and more traditional genres such as Spanish flamenco. Social and cultural influences, and the effects of politics, tourism, modernization, and recording will also guide our investigation. This course is intended for the general university student and neither assumes nor requires previous training in music. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 354: Popular Music: Funk
	This course will follow the trajectory of funk from its roots in rhythm and blues through its classic formulation in the 1970s, and will conclude with a discussion of the urban transformation and revival of funk over the last two decades. We will place funk within its cultural and social milieu, as well as examine the evolving musical characteristics of funk in some detail. This course is intended for the general university student and neither assumes nor requires previous training in music. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 401: Graduate Music History Review 1
	Review of music history and literature from the Middle Ages to 1750. 2 cr.		

CFA MH 402: Graduate Music History Review 2
	Review of music history and literature from the ca. 1750 to the present. 2.0 cr.		

CFA MH 421: Medieval Music
	Prereq: CFA MH 201/202 and 211/212. Special topics in music from the beginnings of chant to 1400, including traditions of chant, early polyphony, secular song, sources, and musical institutions (monastery, convent, cathedral, court, city). For College of Arts and Sciences music majors or permission of instructor, 4 cr.		

CFA MH 422: Renaissance Music
	Prereq: CFA MH 201/211 and 202/212. Special topics in music from ca. 1400-1600, including mass, motet, secular vocal, and instrumental repertories, composers and institutions, music and text, humanism, and the relationship between music and Renaissance culture. For College of Arts and Sciences music majors or permission of instructor, 4 cr.		

CFA MH 423: Baroque Music
	Prereq: CFA MH 201/211 and 202/212. Special topics in music from ca. 1600-1750, including examinations of opera, cantata and oratorio, monody, instrumental genres, and composers, from Monteverdi to J.S. Bach. For College of Arts and Sciences music majors or permission of instructor, 4 cr.		

CFA MH 424: Music in the Classical Period
	Prereq: CFA MH 201/211 and 202/212. Special topics in music from ca. 1750-1820, dealing mainly with symphonic, chamber, and keyboard by Haydn and Mozart through Beethoven. For College of Arts and Sciences music majors or permission of instructor, 4 cr.		

CFA MH 425: Romantic Music
	Prereq: CFA MH 201/211 and 202/212. Special topics in music from ca. 1820-1900, dealing mainly with orchestral, chamber and piano music, as well as Lieder, opera, program music, and individual or groups of composers. For College of Arts and Sciences music majors or permission of instructor, 4 cr.		

CFA MH 426: Music After 1900
	Prereq: CFA MU 201/211 and 202/212. Special topics in orchestral, chamber, solo, and vocal genres from 1900 to the present covering such issues as atonality, neo-classicism, expressionism, the avant-garde, post-modernism, minimalism, technology, etc., and with individual or groups of composers. For College of Arts and Sciences music majors or permission of instructor, 4 cr.		

CFA MH 427: Selected Topics in Music History
	Prereq: CFA MH 201/211 and 202/212. Special topics in the history of music, covering a variety of approaches, styles, and periods, from Antiquity through the present. For College of Arts and Sciences music majors or permission of instructor, 4 cr.		

CFA MH 428: Opera
	Prereq: CFA MU 201/211 and 202/212. Special topics and surveys in opera history from its beginnings, ca. 1600, to the present, focusing on major works, libretti, productions, and music / text relationships, 3 cr. For College of Arts and Sciences music majors or permission of instructor, 4 cr.		

CFA MH 431: Topics in World Music
	No prereq; open to all students. Selected topics concerning non-western music and culture, including colonialism and post-colonialism, orientalism, anthropological perspectives, modernization, transmission, migration, diaspora, and the influence of technology. 4 cr.		

CFA MH 432: Jazz Music
	No prereq; open to all students. A study of issues in, or survey of, jazz from its beginnings to the present, focusing on major performers and recordings, individuality and style, instruments, and forms. 4 cr. (Meets with MH 332.)		

CFA MH 433: Popular Music & Culture
	No prereq; open to all students. Selected topics exploring the relationship between popular music and culture, from American popular song and musical theatre, to worldbeat, blues, R&B, rock, Hip-hop, and techno.  4 cr.		

CFA MH 434: Interdisciplinary Topics in Music History
	No prereq; open to all students. Wide-angled and narrowly-focused topics dealing with music's application to and interaction with other disciplines, including the broader humanities, science, politics, and technology. 4 cr.		

CFA MH 435: Music of Africa
	No prereq; open to all students. A survey of traditional and popular music traditions throughout Sub-Saharan Africa and the diaspora. Emphasis is on music making within its cultural context. 4 cr. (Meets with MH 335)		

CFA MH 436: Musical Cultures of the World
	No prereq; open to all students. A survey of music and musical cultures from around the world, including traditions from Africa, India, Japan, Indonesia, North America, and Latin America. 4 cr.		

CFA MH 441: Jewish Music
	Jewish music as an expression of Jewish heritage, from ancient Israel to modern America. Topics include sacred music, folk songs, musical influence of host countries, nineteenth-century themes and composers in Diaspora. Not available for credit to CFA and CAS music majors. 4 cr.		

CFA MH 442: The Holocaust & Music
	Introduction to musical compositions created during and after the Holocaust that commemorate the period's historical moments, social issues, and personal experiences.4 cr. Not available for credit to CFA and CAS music majors.		

CFA MH 499: Ind Study Undgr
			

CFA MH 541: Music and Poetry
	An historical survey of the relations between the two arts from the Greeks to the present. Discussions of poetry in many languages; emphasis on English. Chant, song, madrigal, opera, and other forms. Ability to read music is required. [ 4 cr.]		

CFA MH 561: World Music Ensemble
	Learn to perform traditional world music in the context of an ensemble taught by specialists of African, Balinese, Latin American, and many other types of world music.  The specific musical style and type of group will change with each semester. Improve your rhythmic skills; lower performance anxiety. Enrollment is open to all students. No previous musical experience is necessary. variable cr. May be repeated for credit.		

CFA MH 562: Balinese Musens
			

CFA MH 563: World Music and Culture
	Read, discuss, and begin to understand many traditions of World Music through performance and discussion taught in the oral tradition. Enrollment is open to all students, and no previous musical experience is necessary. No prereq.  [Var cr.] 		

CFA MH 611: Music Research Techniques
	Introduction to materials about music history and performance.  Topics include research methods, primary and secondary sources, reading and writing about music, editions and editing, and sound recordings.  2 cr.		

CFA MH 620: Topics in Musical Style
	This course addresses a particular period or focus of compositional activity, covering the work or works of more than one composer and opening a view into a circumscribed but influential musical style. 3 cr. May be repeated for credit.  [ 3 cr.]		

CFA MH 621: History and Literature of the Keyboard 1
	From backgrounds in organ, clavichord, and harpsichord, music of the Baroque period to sonatas and character pieces of Schubert. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 622: History and Literature of the Keyboard 2
	From piano music of Mendelssohn to contemporary repertory; emphasis on impact of virtuosity and perfection of idiomatic writing in the keyboard style of the nineteenth century. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 623: History and Literature of Opera
	Rossini, Donizetti, and Bellini; sociopolitical backgrounds of Italian opera in the nineteenth century; Verdi: Aida, Otello, Falstaff; verismo and its exponents. Influence of Wagner on Italian opera; Giacomo Puccini. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 625: History and Literature of the Concerto
	Comparison of Baroque, Classical, Romantic, and twentieth-century approaches to the concerto. Role of the virtuoso in development of the form. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 626: History and Literature of Art Song
	The German Lied, the French art song, and other European art songs in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Emphasis on Schubert, Schumann, Brahms, Wolf, Mussorgsky, Faure, and Debussy. 3.0 credits.		

CFA MH 627: History and Literature of Large Choral Forms
	Development of choral music from the Renaissance period to the present: motets, masses, madrigals, oratorios, cantatas, and combined media, sacred and secular. 3 cr.  		

CFA MH 628: History & Literature of Chamber Music
	Historical development and close readings of the chamber music repertory from Baroque sonatas to contemporary works, for strings, winds, and mixed ensemble. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 629: History of Performance Practice
	Choral and instrumental performance practices from medieval times to the present. Ornamentation and improvisation. Notation problems. Pitch, tuning, and temperament. Tempi and dynamics. Early instruments and early music. Growth and development of the orchestra. Editorial practices. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 631: Individual Composers
	This course will study the work of a single composer in depth, analyzing the work as a product both of individual style and of historical and cultural context. 3 cr. May be repeated for credit.		

CFA MH 661: West African Drumming
	Through the experience of playing in a drumming circle led by a master drummer, students will learn authentic performance techniques and will gain confidence in rhythmic improvisation. Cultural, societal, and historical contexts will be studied informing students about the importance of drumming in all segments of African societies. 2 cr.		

CFA MH 710: Res&Bibliogrphy
			

CFA MH 711: Research and Bibliography
	Methods and materials of research in music; bibliography and bibliographical aids; individual treatment in special areas; style in formal writing; leading historians of past and present; introduction to musicology. 3cr		

CFA MH 715: Writing DMA Recital Notes
	A course that guides the DMA student on the Lecture Recital track to conceptualize, research, and create the materials required for the Lecture Recital.		

CFA MH 721: Music in the Middle Ages
	The Greek heritage. Music from Gregory the Great to the death of Dunstable, religious and secular monody: Gregorian chant, troubador music. Origin and development of medieval polyphonic forms and techniques. Major musical manuscript and theoretical writings. Meets with CFA MH 821. 3 cr.    		

CFA MH 722: Music in the Renaissance
	Sacred and secular music from the fifteenth to the early seventeenth century. Development of larger religious and secular polyphonic forms: mass, psalmody, hymnody, chanson, frottola, madrigal. Early instrumental forms. Music of Dufay, Ockeghem, Josquin, Gesualdo, Lassus, Palestrina, Gabrieli, and Byrd.  Meets with CFA MH 822.  3 cr.		

CFA MH 723: Music of the Baroque
	Topics may include madrigals, monody, early opera, sacred and secular cantatas, individual composers' and national styles, instrumental music, reception, cultural context, notation, analysis, and performance of Baroque music. Permission of instructor.   Meets with CFA MH 823.3 credits.May be repeated for credit. 		

CFA MH 724: Music of the Classic Era
	Topics may include opera, symphony, chamber music, the Lied, sacred music, individual composers' and national styles, cultural context, reception, notation, analysis, and performance of Classic music. Permission of instructor. Meets with CFA MU 824. 3 credits. May be repeated for credit. 		

CFA MH 725: Music in the Romantic Period
	Topics may include program music, opera, symphony, chamber music, the Lied, sacred music, individual composers' and national styles, cultural context, reception, notation, analysis, and performance of Romantic music. Permission of instructor. Meets with CFA MH 825. 3 credits. May be repeated for credit. 		

CFA MH 726: Music in the 20th Century
	Topics may include modernism, the replacement of tonality, music of war, opera, symphony, chamber music, sacred music, individual composers' and national styles, cultural context, reception, notation, analysis, and performance of twentieth-century music. Meets with  CFA MH 826.  Permission of instructor. 3 credits. May be repeated for credit. 		

CFA MH 727: Special Topics in Musicology
	Close study of specifically defined areas in the forefront of musicological research. Individual research papers and class research projects as assigned by the instructor. Permission of instructor. 3 cr. May be repeated for credit.(Meets with CFA MU 827)		

CFA MH 731: Medieval Polyphony
	The creation and development of polyphonic music from its uncertain origins in the ninth century through the schools of Compostela, St. Martial, and Notre Dame, to the secular and sacred works of the late-fourteenth-century "mannerists." 3 cr.		

CFA MH 732: Mass and Motet in the Renaissance
	Development of cyclic mass and motet in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries; works of Dufay, Ockeghem, Josquin, Lassus, Byrd, and others. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 733: Impressionism in Music
	Music in France during the Third Republic (1870-1940) This course offers a comprehensive study of the renaissance of music in France after the Franco-Prussian War, concentrating on Paris as a musical center. It will investigate the rise of societies, schools and groups for music, and landmark events such as the Paris Universal Exhibition of 1889. In addition to an examination of key works by important French composers (including FaurÃÂ©, Debussy, Satie, Ravel and Les Six), it will assess the impact of Russian music, Wagner, Cocteau, Stravinsky, Diaghilev and Boulanger on the French musical scene. As well as studying the socio-political background to important events, it will look closely at allied arts (especially literary and visual arts) and important movements such as orientalism, impressionism and expressionism. (Knowledge of French language not necessary.) The course will include a visit to the Museum of Fine Art in Boston to see the French Collection of this period, and if possible a field trip to see one or more of the French music concerts in the area during the semester. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 734: The German Post-Romantics
	Music in Germany and Austria after Wagner and to the end of the Romantic style. Post-Romantic Expression; idealism and realism. Disintegration of classic harmony and development of new concepts of tonality; works of Mahler, R. Strauss, Wolf, Reger, Pfitzner, and Schoenberg. 3cr.		

CFA MH 735: American Music
	Early music in the colonies. Various attempts to create an individual "American" musical style. Diversity of influences: European, African American, Indian, Spanish-Mexican, religious, jazz, folk song, minstrel, etc. Music of Billings, Lowell, Mason, Gottschalk, MacDowell, Ives, Gershwin, Copland, and others. 3 cr.		

CFA MH 751: Aesthetics, Criticism, and Historiography
	Issues in aesthetics, criticism, and historiography particularly relevant to musicology, such as the compositional process and reception, the musical work and recording technology, as well as sound, musical style, taste, and canon formation.  3 credits.  May be repeated for credit.  (Meets with MH 851.)		

CFA MH 801: Independent Study in Musicology/Ethnomusicology
	Specialized, individually tailored and guided work on projects not connected with a thesis or dissertation, but of particular interest to the graduate student. This course may substitute for a period seminar in the musicology concentrator's program of study. 4 cr. either sem		

CFA MH 820: Pro-Seminar in Musicology and Ethnomusicology
	Required for graduate students in Musicology and Ethnomusicology. This course provides an overview of the historical development of the disciplines, explores research techniques, and introduces influential theoretical perspectives, including: empiricism, psychology, criticism, representation, gender, and globalization. Fall Semester. 4 credits. 		

CFA MH 821: Seminar: Music of the Middle Ages
	The Greek heritage. Music from Gregory the Great to the death of Dunstable, religious and secular monody: Gregorian chant, troubador music. Origin and development of medieval polyphonic forms and techniques. Major musical manuscript and theoretical writings. Meets with CFA MH 721. 4 cr.  		

CFA MH 822: Seminar: Music of the Renaissance
	Sacred and secular music from the fifteenth to the early seventeenth century. Development of larger religious and secular polyphonic forms: mass, psalmody, hymnody, chanson, frottola, madrigal. Early instrumental forms. Music of Dufay, Ockeghem, Josquin, Gesualdo, Lassus, Palestrina, Gabrieli, and Byrd. Meets with CFA MH 722.  4 cr.		

CFA MH 823: Seminar: Music of the Baroque
	Topics may include madrigals, monody, early opera, sacred and secular cantatas, individual composers' and national styles, instrumental music, reception, cultural context, notation, analysis, and performance of Baroque music. Permission of instructor.   Meets with CFA MH 723. 4 credits. May be repeated for credit. 		

CFA MH 824: Seminar: Music of the Classic Era
	Topics may include opera, symphony, chamber music, the Lied, sacred music, individual composers' and national styles, cultural context, reception, notation, analysis, and performance of Classic music. Permission of instructor. Meets with CFA MU 724. 4 credits. May be repeated for credit. 		

CFA MH 825: Seminar: Music of the Romantic Period
	Topics may include program music, opera, symphony, chamber music, the Lied, sacred music, individual composers' and national styles, cultural context, reception, notation, analysis, and performance of Romantic music.  Permission of instructor.  4 credits.  May be repeated for credit.  (Meets with CFA MU 725.) 		

CFA MH 826: Seminar: Music of the 20th Century
	Topics may include modernism, the replacement of tonality, music of war, opera, symphony, chamber music, sacred music, individual composers' and national styles, cultural context, reception, notation, analysis, and performance of twentieth-century music. Meets with  CFA MH 726.  Permission of instructor. 4 credits. May be repeated for credit.		

CFA MH 827: Seminar: Special Topics in Musicology
	Close study of specifically defined areas in the forefront of musicological research. Individual research papers and class research projects as assigned by the instructor. Permission of instructor.  4 cr.  May be repeated for credit.  (Meets with CFA MU 727.) 		

CFA MH 831: Ethnomusicology and Historical Musicology
	Examines methodologies, theories, and landmark publications that divide and connect the disciplines of Musicology and Ethnomusicology.  Topics may include ethnicity, race, (post)-colonialism, positivism, oral and written traditions, analysis, hegemonies (social and ideological), and hybridity.  Includes a fieldwork component.  4 credits.  May be repeated for credit. 		

CFA MH 836: Music and Liturgy
	This course examines the legacy of music written for liturgical and non-liturgical use, using longer texts. It will trace the origins, formulary, and development of the texts (including discussion of the authors). Case studies from different periods of music history will form the basis of further enquiry. Cultural, social and historical context of the first performance will be discussed, along with an examination of the theology behind the text setting (including, for example the use of numerology and other types of musical symbolism). There will be comparison with other examples in the same genre, discussion of changes in text and approach, and national differences in style and technique. Historically informed performance practice, manuscript and source studies, reception history and comparison of editions will all be used to provide greater understanding of the works.  [ 4 cr.]		

CFA MH 837: Crossroads: Cultural and Musical Perspectives on the Blues
	Examination of the blues in its musical and cultural dimensions. Focuses on defining the blues as a place where cultures and styles meet. Chord structure, cultural background, characteristics, major themes, different regional styles and dialects, and its place in history will be examined along with the cultural idea of "crossroads."		

CFA MH 841: History of Music Theory 1
	From ancient Greece to A.D. 1600.  Emphasis on modal theory, theory of counterpoint, and tuning and temperament.  Readings from the original sources.  3 cr.		

CFA MH 842: History of Music Theory 2
	From A.D. 1600 to present.  Emphasis on theories of thorough bass, harmony, tonality, form, rhythm , and contemporary practice.  Readings from the original sources.  3 cr.		

CFA MH 843: Medieval and Renaissance Notation
	Introduction to paleography and codicology.  Scripts and writing.  The notation of plainchant.  Polyphonic notation from the twelfth to the sixteenth century.  Lute and keyboard tablatures.  Continuous practice in transcribing examples into modern notation and performing from original notations.  4 credits. 		

CFA MH 851: Aesthetics, Criticism, and Historiography
	Issues in aesthetics, criticism, and historiography particularly relevant  to musicology, such as compositional process and reception, the musical work and recording technology, as well as  sound, musical style, taste, and canon formation.  4 credits.  May be repeated for credit. 		

CFA MH 852: Current Trends in Scholarship
	Exploration of recent developments in musicology, including published work that contributes to existing areas of musical scholarship, criticism and analysis of new repertories, emerging interpretive frameworks, theories, and approaches.  4 credits.  May be repeated for credit. 		

CFA MH 853: Medieval and Renaissance Notation I, II
	Principles of mensural notation used in polyphonic ensemble music from the thirteenth through the sixteenth centuries. Practice in transcribing examples into modern notation. Transcription of lute and keyboard tablatures, and history and principles of earlier notational systems. 		

CFA MH 854: Music and Culture
	Examines music as both artifact and agent of broader cultural developments.  The seminar will focus on specific musical repertories and practices within their relevant historical, social, and political contexts.  4 cr.  May be repeated for credit. 		

CFA MH 860: Research Methods in Ethnomusicology
	Required seminar for graduate students in Ethnomusicology. This course will investigate research methods used in ethnomusicology including field methods, transcription and notation of non-Western music, interview techniques, and technology. Students will critique a wide range of musical ethnographies. This course will prepare graduate students in ethnomusicology to conduct original research, and it will introduce ethnomusicological research techniques to graduate students from various disciplines (including but not limited to musicology, music education and anthropology.) Ethnomusicology graduate students will often take this graduate seminar in their second semester, but it could be taken at any time in their two years of enrollment. [ 4 cr.]		

CFA MH 861: Contemplating Ethnomusicology
	This graduate seminar is required for graduate students in Ethnomusicology. This course will involve in-depth reading and discussion of key areas of scholarship: music and politics, music and gender, music and religion, music and identity, and other useful paradigms. This course will broaden and deepen the intellectual horizons of graduate students in ethnomusicology and other interested graduate students. Ethnomusicology graduate students will often take this graduate seminar in their third semester, but it could also be taken earlier. [ 4 cr.]		

CFA MH 871: Special Topics in Ethnomusicology
	Case study of specifically defined areas in the forefront of ethnomusicological research.  Individual research papers and class research projects as assigned by the instructor.  4 cr.  May be repeated for credit. 		

CFA MH 899: Independent Project/Directed Study
	Specialized, individually tailored and guided work on projects not connected with a thesis, dissertation or other terminal document, but of particular interest to the graduate student.  Variable 1-3 credits.  		

CFA MH 921: Research and Directed Study in Musicology
	Supervision of special projects, theses, and dissertations in the history of music. May be repeated for credit. 3 cr.		

CFA MP 111: Group Piano 1
	An introduction to piano performance. Emphasis on music reading, piano technique, basic keyboard harmonization. Open to all beginning-level piano students. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 112: Group Piano 2
	Undergraduate Prerequisites: CFA MP111 or placement by audition. A continuation of technique building at the piano developed in CFA MU 151. Focus is on developing aural and visual skills that enable students to perform elementary-level piano music. Introduction to sight-reading, music theory. Open to all students. 1 cr.   		

CFA MP 113: Group Piano 3
	Undergraduate Prerequisites: CFA MP111 and MP112 or placement by audition. Focus on functional piano, the playing of simple accompaniments and intermediate-level piano music. Introduction to chording and playing by ear. Intermediate-level sight-reading and basic piano ensemble experience, and basic keyboard pattern and transposition. Open to music majors and Boston University students. 1 cr.  		

CFA MP 115: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Piano (Hour)
	14 1-hour private piano lessons provided by CFA graduate piano major for students not majoring in piano performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior piano experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 116: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Piano (Half-hour)
	14 1/2-hour private piano lessons provided by CFA graduate piano major for students not majoring in piano performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior piano experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 0.5 cr. 		

CFA MP 130: Class Voice
	Beginning fundamentals and concepts of vocal techniques. 1 cr. Both semesters.		

CFA MP 131: Phonetics for Singing 1
	Undergraduate Prerequisites: Voice majors The study of Italian, French, English, and German lyric diction through use of the international phonetic alphabet. Emphasis on mastering the symbols and sounds of the alphabet and the study of its practical application. Approximately one-half term devoted to work in each language: Italian and French. 1 cr.   		

CFA MP 132: Phonetics for Singing 2
	CContinuation of CFA MP131. Approximately one-half term devoted to work in each language: English and German. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 135: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Voice (Hour)
	14 1-hour private voice lessons provided by CFA graduate voice major for students not majoring in vocal performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior vocal experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 1 cr. Review of music history and literature from the ca. 1750 to the present. 2.0 cr.		

CFA MP 136: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Voice (Half-hour)
	14 1/2-hour private voice lessons provided by CFA graduate voice major for students not majoring in vocal performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior vocal experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 0.5 cr. 		

CFA MP 145: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Strings (Hour)
	14 1-hour private instrument lessons provided by CFA graduate string major for students not majoring in string performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior string experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 146: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Strings (Half-hour)
	14 1/2-hour private instrument lessons provided by CFA graduate string major for students not majoring in string performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior string experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 0.5 cr. 		

CFA MP 155: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Other Instruments (Half-hour)
	14 1-hour private instrument lessons provided by CFA graduate woodwind major for students not majoring in woodwind performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior woodwind experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 156: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Woodwinds (Half-hour)
	14 1/2-hour private instrument lessons provided by CFA graduate woodwind major for students not majoring in woodwind performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior woodwind experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 0.5 cr. 		

CFA MP 165: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Brass (Hour)
	14 1-hour private instrument lessons provided by CFA graduate brass major for students not majoring in brass performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior brass experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 166: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Brass (Half-hour)
	14 1/2-hour private instrument lessons provided by CFA graduate brass major for students not majoring in brass performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior brass experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 0.5 cr. 		

CFA MP 175: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Percussion (Hour)
	14 1-hour private lessons on classical concert percussion provided by CFA graduate percussion major for students not majoring in percussion performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior percussion experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 176: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Percussion (Half-hour)
	14 1/2-hour private lessons on classical concert percussion provided by CFA graduate percussion major for students not majoring in percussion performance. Class is offered to students with or without prior percussion experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 0.5 cr. 		

CFA MP 180: Group Guitar
	Section A, Beginning Guitar, is an introduction to the fundamentals of guitar playing. No previous experience is necessary. By learning music from the Beatles to Bach to the blues, we will cover basic chords, scales, music notation and both pick- and finger-style playing. Students should bring their own guitars. Several are available for rent from the Music Education office(CFA room 240, 617-353-6888).  Section B, Intermediate Guitar, is designed for students who have acquired some basic guitar and reading skills. This section includes work with movable (barre) chord fingerings, movable scale fingerings, improvisation, accompaniment, and improving one's knowledge of the fingerboard. Repertoire includes everything from rock and blues classics to jazz standards.  Section C, Advanced Guitar, is for more experienced guitar students. This section focuses on improving one's playing through mastery of chord and scale fingerings, understanding the music theory behind them, and putting all that information and physical skill to work in the context of improvising and accompanying a selection of jazz standards. Players interested in any style of music can benefit from this skill-building work.  All sections 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 185: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Other Instruments (Hour)
	14 1-hour private lessons provided by CFA graduate performance major for students not majoring in performance on non-traditional instruments for which CFA offers degrees. Class is offered to students with or without prior experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 1 cr.  		

CFA MP 186: MP186: Non-major Private Music Instruction: Other
	Instruments (Half-hour) 14 1/2-hour private lessons provided by CFA graduate performance major for students not majoring in performance on non-traditional instruments for which CFA offers degrees. Class is offered to students with or without prior experience and no pre-requisites are required. Open to CFA and non-CFA students. Course requires applied music fee. 0.5 cr.  		

CFA MP 211: Keyboard Technq
			

CFA MP 212: Keyboard Skills
			

CFA MP 231: English Diction
	Performance for singers: emphasis on style, interpretation, and perfection of diction. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 232: Italian Diction
	Performance for singers: emphasis on style, interpretation, and perfection of diction. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 233: French Diction
	Performance for singers: emphasis on style, interpretation, and perfection of diction. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 234: German Diction
	Performance for singers: emphasis on style, interpretation, and perfection of diction. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 235: Opera Project 1
	Designed to provide a basic understanding of how to prepare and perform appropriate selections from the operatic repertoire, with a dual focus on stagecraft and musical preparation. Class performance projects include recitative, staged operatic arias and opera scenes. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 236: Opera Project 2
	Continuation of CFA MP235. Designed to provide a basic understanding for undergraduate singers (freshmen and sophomores) of how to prepare and perform appropriate selections from the operatic repertoire, with a dual focus on stagecraft and musical preparation. Class performance projects include recitative, staged operatic arias and opera scenes. Students in the class will be considered for ensemble participation in the mainstage productions. Admission by audition. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 331: Song Literature 1
	The development of the Lied genre will be traced from the 18th through 20th centuries, focusing on the poetry and musical setting. Study and performance of Lieder, including songs of Schubert, Schumann, Brahms, Wolf and Schoenberg. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 332: Song Literature 2
	The development of the mÃ©lodie genre will be traced from the 19th through 20th centuries, focusing on the poetry and musical setting, as well as an overview of Russian art song. Study and performance, including works of Berlioz, FaurÃ©, Duparc, Debussy, Rachmaninoff, and Tchaikovsky. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 333: Song Literature 3
	The development of the English, Italian, and Spanish art song will be traced through study and performance. Among composers to be considered: Dowland, Purcell, Britten, Ives, Argento, Rorem, Granados, Turina. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 335: Performance Techniques for the Singing Actor 1
	Undergraduate Prerequisites: Voice Majors. Fundamental stage techniques. Basic stage language, movement, presentation skills, and fundamentals of acting for recital and opera. No audition necessary. Some Opera Workshop participants may be asked to take Performance Techniques as a pre-requisite to casting in scenes. 2 cr.  		

CFA MP 336: Performance Techniques for the Singing Actor 2
	Continuation of CFA MP335. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 381: Introduction to the Organ
	Introduction to the Organ, a companion course to CFA MP382 Introduction to the Harpsichord, will cover organ technique, repertoire, registration, history, and design. Basic techniques of touch, pedaling and coordination, and hymn playing will be addressed, as well as a survey of the literature written for the organ as related to developments in organ design and technology. Visits to local organs on and off campus will be included as well as classes regularly held in Room 426 where there is a seven-stop Noack mechanical studio organ. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 382: Harpischord for Keyboard Majors
	Study and performance of the harpsichord and its literature. Students instructed in the various aspects of harpsichord playing, including technique, registration, basso continuo realization, performance practice, national styles, and the major composers for the instrument. 2.0 credits. 		

CFA MP 390: Intro to Conducting
	This course covers basic skills, including use of each hand, study of musical terminology, transposition, tempi, and dynamics. Students learn simple score reading and receive conducting experience. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 391: Instrumental Conducting 1
	Basic skills--beat patterns, use of each hand, study of musical terminology, transposition, tempi, and dynamics; simple score reading and conducting experience with emphasis on instrumental techniques. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 392: Instrumental Conducting 2
	Basic skills--beat patterns, use of each hand, study of musical terminology, transposition, tempi, and dynamics; simple score reading and conducting experience with emphasis on instrumental techniques. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 393: Choral Conducting
	Application of basic skills in conducting choral literature with attention to developing choral tone and effective enunciation; observation and discussion of rehearsal procedure, choral literature, and performance practice in public schools. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 411: Piano Literature 1
	Study and performance of keyboard music from the Baroque period through the pre-Classical period. 3 cr. 		

CFA MP 412: Piano Literature 2
	Study and performance of keyboard music of the Classical period. 3 cr. 		

CFA MP 413: Piano Literature 3
	Study and performance of piano music of the Romantic period. 3 cr. 		

CFA MP 414: Piano Literature 4
	Study and performance of keyboard music from the late 19th century to the present. 3 cr. 		

CFA MP 415: Piano Pedagogy and Practicum 1
	Teaching methods and materials for use in private and group instruction; literature concerned with leading teachers' approaches to acquiring musical skill and understanding; observation of studio and class teaching; supervised teaching experience. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 416: Piano Pedagogy and Practicum 2
	A continuation of the topics begun in Piano Pedagogy MP415, this course begins with the pedagogical works of Ortmann and Schultz and focuses on teaching techniques for more advanced students. Piano works of major composers are discussed with emphasis on literature selection for different phases of pianistic development. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 440: Orchestral Techniques: String
	For advanced performers on orchestral instruments. Problems for various instruments in standard orchestral literature. Undergraduate students only. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 441: String Literature 1: Solo
	Study and performance of accompanied and unaccompanied solo string literature from the Baroque to the present. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 442: String Literature 2: Solo
	Study and performance of accompanied and unaccompanied solo string literature from the Baroque to the present. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 443: String Literature 3: Chamber
	Study and performance of string chamber music literature from the Baroque to the present. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 444: String Literature 4: Chamber
	Study and performance of string chamber music literature from the Baroque to the present. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 445: String Pedagogy and Practicum 1
	Undergraduate Prerequisites: Non-music education majors. Teaching methods and materials for use in private and group instruction; literature concerned with leading teachers' approaches to acquiring musical skills and understanding. 2 cr.  		

CFA MP 446: String Pedagogy and Practicum 2
	Undergraduate Prerequisites: Non-music education majors. Teaching methods and materials for use in private and group instruction; literature concerned with leading teachers' approaches to acquiring musical skills and understanding. 2 cr.  		

CFA MP 447: String Pedagogy and Practicum 3
	Continued exploration of source materials and methods addressed in Pedagogy and Practicum I and II, with additional hands-on teaching experience. 2 cr, each sem. 		

CFA MP 448: Str Ped&Prac 4
			

CFA MP 449: Hrp Ped/Lit/Ens
			

CFA MP 450: Orchestral Techniques: Woodwinds
	For advanced performers on orchestral instruments. Problems for various instruments in standard orchestral literature. Undergraduate students only. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 460: Orchestral Techniques: Brass
	For advanced performers on orchestral instruments. Problems for various instruments in standard orchestral literature. Undergraduate students only. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 465: Woodwind, Brass, and Percussion Pedagogy and Practicum
	Undergraduate Prerequisites: Non-music education majors. Teaching methods and materials for use in private and group instruction; literature concerned with leading teachers' approaches to acquiring musical skills and understanding. 2 cr.  		

CFA MP 470: Orchestral Techniques: Percussion
	For advanced performers on orchestral instruments. Problems for various instruments in standard orchestral literature. Undergraduate students only. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 499: Ind Study Undgr
			

CFA MP 500: Sym/Chmbr Orch
			

CFA MP 502: Wind Ensemble
			

CFA MP 511: Practical Piano 1
	Keyboard harmonization skills, sight-reading, technical drills and accompaniment for simple melodic lines. Designed to promote keyboard facility for graduate-level singers. Other music majors with permission. (Required of vocal performance majors in master's degree program). 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 512: Practical Piano 2
	Continuation of CFA MP511. (Required of vocal performance majors in master's degree program). 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 531: Graduate Diction
	One-semester review course for singers. This course is intended as a quick review of the basics and nuances of Italian, German, French, to be supplemented by in-class discussion and exercises, weekly homework projects, quizzes, and singing in class. Knowledge of the International Phonetic Alphabet is required. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 532: Vocal Coaching and Performance Seminar
	Performance for singers: emphasis on style, interpretation, and perfection of diction. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 533: Performance Skills
	Performance for singers: emphasis on style, interpretation, and perfection of diction. Particular focus for undergraduate voice majors. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 534: Oratorio Literature and Repertoire
	Performance for singers: emphasis on style, interpretation, and perfection of diction. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 560: Lg Brass Ensem
			

CFA MP 563: Trombone Choir
	Students will learn musical and technical ensemble concepts related to rehearsing and performing in a conducted trombone choir.  Music selected will reflect a variety of styles.  Open to graduate and undergraduate students.  1.0 credit.		

CFA MP 581: Continuo 1
	Keyboard and other continuo players are given note-by-note analysis and coaching of selected continuo realizations, both written and improvised. Non-keyboard players are given tutelage in basic continuo realization appropriate to their level of keyboard skill, so that they may be able to accompany their future students, and also to better appreciate and have more discernment of the continuo player's role in ensembles in which they take part. Additionally, they will play their own instruments (or sing) in the class so that the keyboard players have practice in realizing figured bass accompaniments. For both, a historical overview of the practice of figured bass accompaniment is given together with stylistic analysis and practical musical coaching. 		

CFA MP 582: Continuo 2
	Continuation of CFA MP581.		

CFA MP 585: Baroque String Techniques
	Development of skills, techniques, and common practices for performing Baroque string literature with period instruments. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 590: Advanced Instrumental Conducting
	Development of knowledge and skills in the instrumental field at a professional level; various periods and composers and relationship of different styles to the conductor's art; musical analysis and practice in conducting.		

CFA MP 591: Advanced Choral Conducting
	Development of knowledge and skills in the choral field at a professional level; various periods and composers and relationship of different styles to the conductor's art; musical analysis and practice in conducting. 		

CFA MP 599: Alexander Tech
			

CFA MP 600: Boston University Symphony Orchestra and Chamber Orchestra
	May be repeated for credit. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 602: Boston University Wind Ensembles
	May be repeated for credit. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 603: Boston University Symphonic Chorus
	Required of undergraduate vocal performance majors. May be repeated for credit. 0.5 cr.		

CFA MP 604: Boston University Small Choral Ensembles
	Required of undergraduate vocal performance majors. May be repeated for credit. 0.5 cr.		

CFA MP 605: Opera Workshop
	Undergraduate (juniors and seniors) singers are selected who demonstrate operatic potential, have mastered a beginning level of acting and vocal skill, and who need experience, integration, and refinement. Coursework includes acting, music and dramatic coaching, movement, stage and audition techniques and master classes. The class culminates in performance of opera scenes or one act operas. Students may be eligible for secondary roles when appropriate and in consultation with the student's applied teacher. Students in Opera Workshop will participate in mainstage production ensembles. Admission by audition. 		

CFA MP 606: Opera Theatre
	Designed for graduate singers who demonstrate operatic potential and have mastered an intermediate integration of acting, vocal, and movement skills. Coursework includes acting, music and dramatic coaching of scenes and arias, movement classes, diction, scenes participation audition preparation, and master classes. All students enrolled in Opera Theatre will be considered for casting in principal roles when appropriate and in consultation with the student's applied teacher. All students in Opera Theatre will also participate in the mainstage production ensembles. Other performance opportunities may include scenes programs or one act operas. Admission by audition. 		

CFA MP 607: Musical Organization - New Music Ensemble
	Performance and praxis of contemporary styles from 1900 to the present. Participation in contemporary music concerts and Composers' Forum presentations. May be repeated for credit. Does not fulfill musical organization requirement. 1.0 credit.		

CFA MP 608: Chamber Music
	Study and performance of chamber music in various combinations. Chamber ensembles receive one hour of coaching each week with a member of the faculty. (May be repeated for credit.) 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 609: Baroque Chamber Music
	Study and performance of Baroque chamber music for winds, strings, and continuo. Ensembles receive one hour of coaching each week with a member of the applied music faculty in the Historical Performance Department. (May be repeated for credit.) 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 610: Ensemble for Pianists
	Admission by audition. Four-hand and ensemble work for piano; works using piano with small combinations of instruments. (May be repeated for credit.) 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 611: Piano Literature 1
	Study and performance of keyboard music from the Baroque period through the pre-Classical period. 3 cr. 		

CFA MP 612: Piano Literature 2
	Study and performance of keyboard music of the Classical period. 3 cr. 		

CFA MP 613: Piano Literature 3
	Study and performance of piano music of the Romantic period. 3 cr. 		

CFA MP 614: Piano Literature 4
	Study and performance of keyboard music from the late 19th century to the present. 3 cr. 		

CFA MP 615: Piano Pedagogy 1
	An historical overview of the main treatises in Piano Pedagogy as well as teaching methods and materials for use in private and group instruction. The first semester deals with literature and musical concepts as they relate to beginning pianists. The second semester covers some of the major repertoire of the common practice period as well as the work of Ortmann and Schultz. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 616: Piano Pedagogy 2
	A continuation of the topics begun in Piano Pedagogy MU708, this course begins with the pedagogical works of Ortmann and Schultz and focuses on teaching techniques for more advanced students. Piano works of major composers are discussed with emphasis on literature selection for different phases of pianistic development. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 621: Collaborative Piano Skills
	Ensemble and accompaniment skill-building for piano performance majors seeking additional collaborative experience. Vocal and instrumental repertoire; recommended additional weekly accompaniment of music majors Serves as Music Organization credit for piano majors only. May be repeated for credit with permission of instructor. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 622: Collaborative Piano
	Analysis and practice in piano accompaniment of singers and instrumentalists; sight reading and transposition; discussion of style and performance. May be repeated for credit. 2.0 credits.		

CFA MP 635: Performance Techniques for the Singing Actor 1
	Fundamental stage techniques. Basic stage language, movement, presentation skills, and fundamentals of acting for recital and opera. No audition necessary. Some Opera Workshop participants may be asked to take Performance Techniques as a pre-requisite to casting in scenes.		

CFA MP 636: Performance Techniques for the Singing Actor 2
	Continuation of CFA MP635. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 640: Orchestra Techniques: Strings
	For advanced performers on orchestral instruments. Problems for various instruments in standard orchestral literature. Graduate students only. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 641: String Pedagogy and Practicum 1
	Teaching methods and materials for use in private and group instruction; literature concerned with leading teachers' approaches to acquiring musical skills and understanding. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 642: String Pedagogy and Practicum 2
	Teaching methods and materials for use in private and group instruction; literature concerned with leading teachers' approaches to acquiring musical skills and understanding. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 643: String Literature 3
	Study and performance of string chamber music literature from the Baroque to the present. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 644: String Literature 4
	Study and performance of string chamber music literature from the Baroque to the present. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 645: String Pedagogy and Practicum 1
	Teaching methods and materials for use in private and group instruction; literature concerned with leading teachers' approaches to acquiring musical skills and understanding.		

CFA MP 646: String Pedagogy and Practicum 2
	Teaching methods and materials for use in private and group instruction; literature concerned with leading teachers' approaches to acquiring musical skills and understanding. 2.0 credits.		

CFA MP 647: String Pedagogy and Practicum 3
	Continuation of String Pedagogy I and II, including study of additional methods, approaches and resources, and evaluation of hands on teaching experience.		

CFA MP 648: String Pedagogy and Practicum 4
	Continuation of String Pedagogy I, II, and III including study of additional methods, approaches and resources, and evaluation of hands on teaching experience.		

CFA MP 649: Hrp Ped/Lit/Ens
			

CFA MP 650: Orchestral Techniques: Woodwinds
	For advanced performers on orchestral instruments. Problems for various instruments in standard orchestral literature. Graduate students only. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 660: Orchestral Techniques: Brass
	For advanced performers on orchestral instruments. Problems for various instruments in standard orchestral literature. Graduate students only. 1 cr..		

CFA MP 663: Trombone Literature
	Students will meet one hour a week with a specialist trombone instructor.  Students will do a comprehensive study of trombone literature. Listening assignments will be assigned. Students will compile from these discussions a comprehensive annotated music literature list, of their designated instrument for future use.  1.0 credit.		

CFA MP 670: Percussion Ensemble
	For advanced performers on orchestral instruments. Study and preparation of standard orchestral excerpts, critique and mock-auditions. 1.0 credit.		

CFA MP 671: Percussion Ensemble
	Study and performance of chamber music for combinations of percussion instruments. May be repeated for credit. 2.0 credits.		

CFA MP 681: Introduction to the Organ
	Introduction to the Organ, a companion course to MP682 Introduction to the Harpsichord, will cover organ technique, repertoire, registration, history, and design. Basic techniques of touch, pedaling and coordination, and hymn playing will be addressed, as well as a survey of the literature written for the organ as related to developments in organ design and technology. Visits to local organs on and off campus will be included as well as classes regularly held in Room 426 where there is a seven-stop Noack mechanical studio organ. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 682: Harpischord for Keyboard Majors
	Study and performance of the harpsichord and its literature. Students instructed in the various aspects of harpsichord playing, including technique, registration, basso continuo realization, performance practice, national styles, and the major composers for the instrument. 2.0 credits. 		

CFA MP 685: Organ Seminar
			

CFA MP 690: Orchestral Conducting Seminar
	Study and directed assignments in conducting of significant works, vocal and instrumental, in addition to required attendance at rehearsals of assigned groups. Credit amount varies.		

CFA MP 691: Choral Conducting Seminar: Medieval and Renaissance
	Content includes refinement of conducting skills, study of repertoire, score analysis, and rehearsal techniques.  Literature may include Gregorian chant and Masses, motets, and madrigals from the fourteenth- through seventeenth-centuries.  Students will observe and participate in rehearsals and performances of the School of Music choral ensembles (e.g. Chamber Chorus, Concert Choir) and the Boston University Symphonic Chorus.  Enrollment in these ensembles for credit is discouraged, as participation is expected in order to satisfy laboratory component of Seminar		

CFA MP 692: Choral Conducting Seminar: Baroque and Early Classic
	Content includes refinement of conducting skills, study of repertoire, score analysis, and rehearsal techniques.  Literature may include oratorios, Masses, and smaller choral works from the seventeenth- and eighteenth-centuries.  Students will observe and participate in rehearsals and performances of the School of Music choral ensembles (e.g. Chamber Chorus, Concert Choir) and the Boston University Symphonic Chorus.  Enrollment in these ensembles for credit is discouraged, as participation is expected in order to satisfy laboratory component of Seminar.		

CFA MP 693: Choral Conducting Seminar: Late Classic and Romantic
	Content includes refinement of conducting skills, study of repertoire, score analysis, and rehearsal techniques.  Literature may include oratorios, Masses, and smaller choral works from the eighteenth- and nineteenth-centuries.  Students will observe and participate in rehearsals and performances of the School of Music choral ensembles (e.g. Chamber Chorus, Concert Choir) and the Boston University Symphonic Chorus.  Enrollment in these ensembles for credit is discouraged, as participation is expected in order to satisfy laboratory component of Seminar.		

CFA MP 694: Choral Conducting Seminar: 20th Century and Contemporary
	Content includes refinement of conducting skills, study of repertoire, score analysis, and rehearsal techniques.  Literature may include oratorios, Masses, and smaller choral works from the twentieth- and twenty-first-centuries.  Students will observe and participate in rehearsals and performances of the School of Music choral ensembles (e.g. Chamber Chorus, Concert Choir) and the Boston University Symphonic Chorus.  Enrollment in these ensembles for credit is discouraged, as participation is expected in order to satisfy laboratory component of Seminar.		

CFA MP 695: Phonetics for Choral Conducting
	Provides an opportunity for students to develop and understanding of common pronunciation of English, Italian, German, and French for the performance of choral literature. The first half of the semester will be spent learning the International Phonetic Alphabet through in-class exercises, homework, quizzes, and tests, and in-class performance of choral works in English. The second half will involve learning symbols specific to Italian, German, and French, and conducting choral songs in those languages. Classes will meet for one hour twice a week. 2 cr. 		

CFA MP 697: Contemporary Conducting
	Students receive instruction in the preparation and techniques of conducting contemporary music and are assigned conducting projects in the Contemporary Collegium or with other related groups. 1 cr. May be repeated for credit once.		

CFA MP 720: Accompaniment Practicum
	Accompaniment Practicum		

CFA MP 721: Coach for Pno 1
			

CFA MP 722: Coach for Pno 2
			

CFA MP 723: Opera Arias for Pianists 1
	Course for collaborative pianists in the study and performance of standard opera aria repertoire. Required for DMA collaborative piano majors with vocal or vocal/instrumental concentration. Open as elective credit by permission of instructor to music majors having requisite piano skills. The course will meet for two hours each week. Topics will include the study of recitative, operas of Mozart, and the Bel Canto operas of Bellini, Rossini, Donizetti and Verdi. Students will be required to purchase a textbook and opera aria for anthologies. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 724: Opera Arias for Pianists 2
	Opera Arias for Pianists 2 Continuation of CFA MP723. 2 cr.  		

CFA MP 730: Opera Institute
			

CFA MP 731: Special Topics in Song Literature
	Focused study on a specific body of song literature through historical criticism, analysis of poetry, and performance. Topic varies by semester. 1 cr.		

CFA MP 735: Vocal Pedagogy 1
	Introduction to the fundamentals of vocal tract physiology, acoustics, and technique. Open to all graduate students. 		

CFA MP 741: Special Topics in String Literature
	Focused study on a specific body of string chamber music literature through score study, readings and lecture, listening to selected recordings, coached group readings by those registered for the course, and/or possible performances in or out of the class meeting time. Topic varies by semester. Open to String Majors. 1 cr. 		

CFA MP 781: Special Topics in Performance Practice 1
	Consideration of major performance issues in the music of Monteverdi, Handel, Bach, et al. Covers topics such as ornamentation, tempo, articulation, tuning and temperament, baroque instruments and their playing techniques, baroque dance, and various national styles of playing. Students perform on their instruments, discuss performance issues, read primary sources and other material about 17th and 18th century performance, compose ornamentation, and listen to and discuss recorded performances. occasional guest lecturers. Required of all historical performance majors. Open to other music graduate students with permission of the instructor. 		

CFA MP 782: Special Topics in Performance Practice 2
	Continuation of CFA MP781.		

CFA MP 791: Choral Repertory and Performance Style 1
	Interpretation of major choral works; literature selected from masses, requiems, and magnificats, representing all historical periods; significant compositions; particular attention to stylistic elements. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 792: Choral Repertory and Performance Style 2
	Continuation of CFA MP791, but with literature selected from cantata, passion, and oratorio. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 891: Choral Repertoire of the Renaissance
	Seminar in repertoire and performance practice of the vocal ensemble music from the late Middle Ages and Renaissance, approximately 1420-1600. Required for all DMA candidates in Choral Conducting. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 892: Choral Repertoire of the Baroque
	Seminar in repertoire and performance practice of choral music from the Baroque and early Classical periods. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 893: Choral Repertoire of the Late Classical and Romantic Periods
	Seminar in repertoire and performance practice of choral music from the late Classical and Romantic periods. Required for DMA candidates in Choral Conducting. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 894: Choral Repertoire of the Twentieth Century
	Seminar in repertoire and performance practice of choral music from the 20th Century. Required for DMA candidates in Choral Conducting. 2 cr.		

CFA MP 899: Ind Project/Ds
			

CFA MP 929: Research, Directed Study, and Performance in Conducting
	Preparation of project in the field of conducting. Credit amount varies.		

CFA MT 101: Music Theory 1
	Basic music vocabulary. Elements of tonal music approached through hearing, writing, analytical work, and keyboard. Species counterpoint. All students must also enroll in Ear-Training and Sight-Singing. 3 cr. 		

CFA MT 102: Music Theory 2
	Understanding of chord grammar through study of voice leading, figured bass, and harmonization of    melodies. Keyboard harmony and coordination exercises. Introduction to the systematic study of form. All    students must also enroll in Ear-Training and Sight-Singing. 3 cr		

CFA MT 105: Elements of Music Theory 1
	Elements of music; properties of tone and rhythm, sight reading from bass and treble clefs; notation of meter and rhythms; construction of scales, triads, and intervals. Ear-training, sight-singing, analysis, and compositional work. Credit not applicable to music major. 4 cr.		

CFA MT 106: Elements of Music Theory 2
	Elementary problems in voice leading and analysis of simpler music from different periods, focusing on the structuring elements of composition. Correlated ear-training, analytical, and compositional work. Credit not applicable to music major. 4 cr.		

CFA MT 111: Ear-Training and Sight-Singing 1
	Sight singing and dictation of diatonic materials in all clefs and using all intervals. Exercises in rhythmic reading, conducting, prepared singing, and intonation. 1 cr.		

CFA MT 112: Ear-Training and Sight-Singing 2
	Undergraduate Prerequisite: CFA MT 111 or placement by exam. Continuation of MT 111. An introduction to chromaticism and modulation within a tonal context. Triplets and compound rhythms. Melodic, harmonic, and rhythmic dictation. 1 cr. 		

CFA MT 121: Basic Composition 1
	Introduction to principles of composition. Instruction in calligraphy and manuscript preparation. Examination of contemporary music devices. Written work modeled on analyses of representative forms. 2 cr. 		

CFA MT 122: Basic Composition 2
	Introduction to principles of composition. Instruction in calligraphy and manuscript preparation. Examination of contemporary music devices. Written work modeled on analyses of representative forms. 2 cr. 		

CFA MT 201: Music Theory 3
	More advanced study of tonal harmony and voice leading. Tonal counterpoint. Formal and compositional idioms of the late Baroque. Keyboard harmony, figured bass, and introduction to score reading. All students must also enroll in Ear-Training and Sight-Singing. 3 cr.		

CFA MT 202: Music Theory 4
	Continued study of tonal and chromatic harmony and voice leading. Composition of small forms. Introduction to instrumentation and scoring. Formal and compositional idioms of the Classical period. Keyboard harmony and score reading. All students must also enroll in Ear-Training and Sight-Singing. 3 cr.		

CFA MT 211: Ear-Training and Sight-Singing 3
	Undergraduate Prerequisites:CFA MT 111 and MT 112 or placement by exam.Continuation of CFA MT 112. More challenging exercises in sight singing and preparation of increasingly chromatic or melodically disjunct materials. Melodic, harmonic, two-part, and rhythmic dictation. Two-part rhythmic exercises and conducting. 1 cr. 		

CFA MT 212: Ear-Training and Sight-Singing 4
	Undergraduate Prerequisites: CFA MT 111, MT 112, and MT 211 or placement by exam. Continuation of CFA MT 211. Greater emphasis on non-diatonic material;, more difficult exercises in prepared singing, sight-singing, dictation, and rhythm. 1cr. 		

CFA MT 221: Composition 3
	Prereq: CFA MU 561, 562. Original work in traditional forms of musical compostion. Original work in traditional forms of music composition. (May be repeated for credit) 2 cr. Undergraduate.		

CFA MT 222: Composition 4
	Prereq: CFA MU 561, 562. Original work in traditional forms of musical compostion. Original work in traditional forms of music composition. (May be repeated for credit) 2 cr. each sem. Undergraduate.		

CFA MT 301: Music Theory 5
	Individual musicianship problems developed according to the major area of study. Formal and compositional idioms of the Romantic period of music. Individual study or compositional projects. 2 cr.		

CFA MT 302: Music Theory 6
	Individual musicianship problems developed according to the major area of study. Formal and compositional idioms of the twentieth century. Individual study or compositional projects. 2 cr.		

CFA MT 311: Ear-Training and Sight-Singing 5
	Undergraduate Prerequisites: CFA MT 111, MT 112, MT 211, and MT 212 or placement by exam. Continuation of CFA MT 212. Advanced work in preparing chromatic and melodically disjunct material, sight-singing, rhythmic reading, and dictation. May be taken for graduate credit with permission. 1 cr.		

CFA MT 321: Composition 5
	Prereq: CFA MU 561, 562. Original work in traditional forms of music composition. (May be repeated for credit.) 2 cr. each sem. Undergraduate.		

CFA MT 322: Composition 6
	Prereq: CFA MU 561, 562. Original work in traditional forms of music composition. (May be repeated for credit.) 2 cr. each sem. Undergraduate.		

CFA MT 341: Modal Counterpoint 1
	Prereq: CFA MU 102. Analysis and writing of examples of sixteenth-century vocal styles including the motet. 2 cr. 		

CFA MT 342: Tonal Counterpoint 2
	The study of the early eighteenth-century styles of J.S. Bach and his contemporaries, with an emphasis on the relationship between theory and practice. Special attention will be paid to composing and analyzing invertible counterpoint, canon, two-part inventions and fugue. This is an undergraduate course, cross-listed with the graduate course MU705. 2.0 credits. 		

CFA MT 400: Graduate Theory Review
	This course is dependent on a student's theory proficiency exam results. Review of fundamental music theory and analysis through the study of chord grammar, voice leading principles, figured bass, four-part chorale harmonizations and form. Materials are approached through listening, writing and analytical work. Pre-requisite for MU600, unless placed out via theory proficiency exam.		

CFA MT 421: Senior Composition 7
	Prereq: CFA MU 562, 564. Original work in contemporary musical composition. Undergraduate. 3 cr. each semester.		

CFA MT 422: Senior Composition 8
	Prereq: CFA MU 563, 564. Original work in contemporary musical composition. Undergraduate. 3 cr. each semester.		

CFA MT 431: Orchestration 1
	Basic techniques in scoring for chorus, orchestra, band, and ensembles. Ranges and transpositions of voices and instruments; idiomatic writing, score reading, and clef transposition. 2 cr.		

CFA MT 432: Orchestration 2
	Basic techniques in scoring for chorus, orchestra, band, and ensembles. Ranges and transpositions of voices and instruments; idiomatic writing, score reading, and clef transposition. 2 cr.		

CFA MT 435: Composing with Electronic Sounds & Computers 1
	This course seeks to give the students the aesthetic and technical knowledge needed to complete individual, creative work using electronic media alone or with acoustic instruments.  The course will make use of computers, recording equipment, digital editing software, and sound analysis software: developing basic skills in synthesis, sampling, digital recording and live performance techniques.  Listening assignments will provide an introduction to existing literature and relevant aspects of acoustic and electronic theory will be discussed.  May not be taken concurrently with CFA MU 412.  2 cr course offered both Fall and Spring semesters.		

CFA MT 436: Composing with Electronic Sounds and Computers 2
	Prereq: CFA MU411 or MU611 or equivalent experience and permission from instructor.  This course seeks to expand to students the aesthetic and technical knowledge in the domains of computer music, sound manipulation and sound recording.  It also seeks to introduce Computer Assisted Composition environments and real-time interaction between electronics and instruments.  2 cr course offered both Fall and Spring semesters.		

CFA MT 437: Composing with Electronic Sounds and Computers 3
	Prereq: CFA MU 412/612 or equivalent experience and permission of instructor. More advanced computer music applications focusing on synthesis, real-time interaction and high-level musical control of processes.  2 cr course offered both Fall and Spring semesters.		

CFA MT 499: Ind Study Undgr
			

CFA MT 520: Composers' Forum
	Composers' Forum		

CFA MT 561: Theory Practicum 1
	Practical application of theoretical skills: keyboard realization, score reading, rehearsal techniques, advanced solfÃ¨ge and intonation drills, and analytical problems as related to the needs of the performing musician. Performance problems of contemporary literature. Materials drawn from solo and ensemble music of all periods. Elective course for junior level and above, including graduate students. 2 cr, each semester. 		

CFA MT 562: Theory Practicum 2
	Practical application of theoretical skills: keyboard realization, score reading, rehearsal techniques, advanced solfÃ¨ge and intonation drills, and analytical problems as related to the needs of the performing musician. Performance problems of contemporary literature. Materials drawn from solo and ensemble music of all periods. Elective course for junior level and above, including graduate students. 2 cr.		

CFA MT 600: Analytical Techniques
	Systematic and empirical investigations into formal and compositional procedures of selected masterworks from the tonal repetoire.  Lectures leading to individual analytical projects.		

CFA MT 601: Analytical Techniques 1
	Systematic and empirical investigations into formal and compositional procedures of selected masterworks from the tonal repertoire. Lectures leading to individual analytical projects. Credits not applicable to MusAD in Composition. 3 cr.		

CFA MT 602: Analytical Techniques 2
	Analysis of contemporary music. Investigation into compositional methods and procedures used in twentieth-century music. Lectures leading to individual analytical projects. Credits not applicable to MusAD in Composition. 3 cr.		

CFA MT 621: Graduate Composition
	Prereq: Two years of composition. Original work in advanced problems of musical composition. May be repeated for credit. 3 cr. 		

CFA MT 631: Orchestration 1
	Basic techniques in scoring for chorus, orchestra, band, and ensembles. Ranges and transpositions of voices and instruments; idiomatic writing, score reading, and clef transposition. 3 cr. 		

CFA MT 632: Orchestration 2
	Prereq: CFA MU 703. Contemporary orchestral techniques. Advanced study in scoring for modern orchestras, ensembles, choruses, bands, and combined media. 3.0 credits.		

CFA MT 635: Composing with Electronic Sounds and Computers 1
	This course seeks to give the students the aesthetic and technical knowledge needed to complete individual, creative work using electronic media alone or with acoustic instruments.  The course will make use of computers, recording equipment, digital editing software, and sound analysis software: developing basic skills in synthesis, sampling, digital recording and live performance techniques.  Listening assignments will provide an introduction to existing literature and relevant aspects of acoustic and electronic theory will be discussed.  May not be taken concurrently with CFA MU 412.  2 cr course offered both Fall and Spring semesters.		

CFA MT 636: Composing with Electronic Sounds and Computers 2
	Prereq: CFA MU411 or MU611 or equivalent experience and permission from instructor.  This course seeks to expand to students the aesthetic and technical knowledge in the domains of computer music, sound manipulation and sound recording.  It also seeks to introduce Computer Assisted Composition environments and real-time interaction between electronics and instruments.  2 cr course offered both Fall and Spring semesters.		

CFA MT 637: Composing with Electronic Sounds and Computers 3
	Prereq: CFA MU 412/612 or equivalent experience and permission of instructor. More advanced computer music applications focusing on synthesis, real-time interaction and high-level musical control of processes.  2 cr course offered both Fall and Spring semesters.		

CFA MT 641: Modal Counterpoint
	Analysis and writing of sixteenth-century vocal styles based on the practices of Palestrina, Lassus, and others. 2 cr.		

CFA MT 642: Tonal Counterpoint 2
	The study of the early eighteenth-century styles of J.S. Bach and his contemporaries, with an emphasis on the relationship between theory and practice. Special attention will be paid to composing and analyzing invertible counterpoint, canon, two-part inventions and fugue. This is an undergraduate course, cross-listed with the graduate course MU705. 2.0 credits. 		

CFA MT 645: Contemporary Techniques 1
	Analysis and original application of such techniques as polyharmony, atonality, pandiatonicism, linear counterpoint, multirhythms, and aleatory types. 2 cr, each semester.		

CFA MT 657: Pedagogy of Music Theory 1
	Methods, materials, and sequence for teaching music theory. Texts, course content, new approaches, and inclusion of contemporary techniques in curriculum. 2 cr.		

CFA MT 658: Pedagogy of Music Theory 2
	Methods, materials, and sequence for teaching music theory. Texts, course content, new approaches, and inclusion of contemporary techniques in curriculum. 2 cr.		

CFA MT 665: Schenkrn Analys
			

CFA MT 671: Fugue
	Analysis and writing of examples of fugues in three and four voices based on the practice of J. S. Bach and his contemporaries. 2 cr.		

CFA MT 672: Advanced Tonal Composition
	Advanced compositional projects imitating styles and procedures of various homophonic genres, including variation, rondo, and sonata; problems of continuity in tonal movements. 2 cr.		

CFA MT 701: Doctoral Theory Proseminar
	Preparation for doctoral qualifying examination in music theory; may be required by a department prior to student's applying to take qualifying examinations. Students may be required to repeat course without credit. 2 cr. 		

CFA MT 741: Tonal Counterpoint
	The study of the early eighteenth-century styles of J.S. Bach and his contemporaries, with an emphasis on the relationship between theory and practice. Special attention will be paid to composing and analyzing invertible counterpoint, canon, two-part inventions and fugue. This is a graduate course, cross-listed with the undergraduate course MU406. 2.0 credits.		

CFA MT 751: Special Topics in Theory and Analysis
	Close study of important topics in music theory and analysis. Individual papers and projects assigned by the instructor. 3 cr.(May be repeated for credit).		

CFA MT 761: Advanced Tonal Analysis
	Prereq: CFA MU 601. Advanced work involving analytic approaches to pitch organization, form, motive, rhythm, etc. with emphasis on nineteenth-century music.3 cr.		

CFA MT 762: Advanced Contemporary Analysis
	In-depth review of analytical techniques and terminology developed for diverse  musical styles from the 20th and 21st centuries. Analysis of representative works from the literature. 3 cr.		

CFA MT 765: Adv Schnk Anlys
			

CFA MT 771: Performance and Analysis
	Review of literature on the relation of analysis to musical performance; practical application of theoretical and analytic concepts to performance decisions; written exercises addressing performance issues. 3 cr.		

CFA MT 781: Jazz and Popular Arranging
	Standard notational methods; chord vocabulary; arrangements of popular melodies in a variety of styles; development of materials from lead sheets; class performance of arrangements.		

CFA MT 861: Seminar in Tonal Theory
	Prereq: CFA MU 601 or equivalent. Critical review of readings on topics of current interest in structure, materials, organization, and aesthetics of tonal music. Individual presentations and seminar papers. 3 cr. 		

CFA MT 862: Seminar in Post-Tonal Theory
	Critical review of readings on topics of current interest in structure, materials, organization, and aesthetics of 20th and 21st century music. Individual presentations and seminar papers. 3 cr. 		

CFA MT 899: Ind Project/Ds
			

CFA MT 921: Research and Directed Study in Theory/Composition
	Prereq: consent of instructor. Supervision of special projects, theses, documents, and dissertations of graduate students in field of theory or composition, or others by permission of instructor. May be repreated for credit. 2 or 3 cr. 		

CFA MU 091: Marching Band
	The BU Marching Band is a corps style band with a large wind block, drum line, front ensemble (pit), and     color guard. The Band performs numerous exhibition field shows all over New England, including several     local and regional parades. Rehearsals are on Tuesday and Thursday evenings from 6:30-9:00pm. (The B1  section is for Drum Line.) 0 credits.		

CFA MU 092: Concert Band
	Under the direction of Dr. Jennifer Bill, the Boston University Concert Band is a large concert ensemble comprising approximately 55 members from a multitude of majors throughout the university. The ensemble is open to all students wishing to continue making music throughout their collegiate years. The Concert Band performs a diverse section of the wind band repertoire ranging from traditional works to premieres and recent compositions by leading composers. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 0 credits.		

CFA MU 093: Pep Band
	The BU Pep Band is the powerful driving force behind the spirit and fan ritual at all home men's hockey and men's & women's basketball games. Boasting over one hundred members, this band provides a high-energy way to stay involved in the athletic band program after marching bands. Because the teams are perennial contenders, the band has many opportunities for travel to conference and NCAA tournaments. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 0 cr.		

CFA MU 094: Jazz Ensemble
	Under the direction of Dr. Andrew Goodrich, the Big Band is a standard big band ensemble that performs a wide range of music. Membership is by audition only. The band consists of members from many colleges in the University. The Big Band is the flagship jazz ensemble of the university. The BU Big Band performs regularly on and off-campus. Performances include the Jazz Power Hour in BU Central, Boston University's Biannual JazzFest and annual Jazz Brunch. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 0 credits.		

CFA MU 095: Jazz Combo
	The Honors Combo is dedicated to playing small group jazz, consisting mainly of a rhythm section (bass, drums, piano or guitar) and one to four other instruments, depending on balance and ability level. This ensemble is open by audition only. The Honors Combo performs several times throughout the semester. Auditions take place during the first week of classes in the fall. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 0 cr.		

CFA MU 096: Jazz Workshop
	The Jazz Workshop is for those who wish to learn more about the art of playing jazz. This ensemble focuses on improvisation and education in the jazz style. The Jazz Workshop performs one concert per semester. Auditions take place during the first week of classes in the fall. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 0 cr.		

CFA MU 097: All Campus Orchestra
	The All-Campus Orchestra is a full concert orchestra with auditions open to anyone in the Boston University community. The orchestra meets Tuesday and Thursday evenings from 7:00-9:00 p.m. and performs four times throughout the academic year.  The orchestra is an audition-only ensemble with a limited number of wind and percussion chairs. Under the direction of Mark Miller, the All-Campus Orchestra is a large ensemble devoted to the study and performance of orchestral music. Participation in the ACO gives student musicians the tools, experience and understanding to appreciate music for the rest of their lives, either as discerning listeners or as participants in the vibrant world of amateur music-making. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 0 cr.		

CFA MU 099: Symphonc Chorus
			

CFA MU 190: All-Campus Chamber Music
	This course would provide an opportunity for accomplished musicians from the greater Boston University community to develop their playing in a small-ensemble setting in addition to their participation in the larger All-Campus Ensembles. Open to Non-majors.  Majors seeking elective credit may also register with permission. Group placement will be determined based on the results of All-Campus auditions.  Credit hours: 1   Meetings: twelve 1-hour coachings per semester and independently scheduled rehearsals; times TBD depending on the mutual availability of coach and chamber ensemble members 		

CFA MU 191: Marching Band
	The BU Marching Band is a corps style band with a large wind block, drum line, front ensemble (pit), and color guard. The Band performs numerous exhibition field shows all over New  England, including several local and regional parades. Rehearsals are on Tuesday and Thursday evenings from 6:30-9:00pm. (The B1  section is for Drum Line.) 1.0 credit.		

CFA MU 192: Concert Band
	Under the direction of Dr. Jennifer Bill, the Boston University Concert Band is a large concert ensemble comprising approximately 55 members from a multitude of majors throughout the university. The ensemble is open to all students wishing to continue making music throughout their collegiate years. The Concert Band performs a diverse section of the wind band repertoire ranging from traditional works to premieres and recent compositions by leading composers. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 1 cr.		

CFA MU 193: Pep Band
	The BU Pep Band is the powerful driving force behind the spirit and fan ritual at all home men's hockey and men's & women's basketball games. Boasting over one hundred members, this band provides a high-energy way to stay involved in the athletic band program after marching bands. Because the teams are perennial contenders, the band has many opportunities for travel to conference and NCAA tournaments. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 1 cr.		

CFA MU 194: Jazz Ensemble
	Under the direction of Dr. Andrew Goodrich, the Big Band is a standard big band ensemble that performs a wide range of music. Membership is by audition only. The band consists of members from many colleges in the University. The Big Band is the flagship jazz ensemble of the university. The BU Big Band performs regularly on and off-campus. Performances include the Jazz Power Hour in BU Central, Boston University's Biannual JazzFest and annual Jazz Brunch. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 1 cr		

CFA MU 195: Jazz Combo
	The Honors Combo is dedicated to playing small group jazz, consisting mainly of a rhythm section (bass, drums, piano or guitar) and one to four other instruments, depending on balance and ability level. This ensemble is open by audition only. The Honors Combo performs several times throughout the semester. Auditions take place during the first week of classes in the fall. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 1 cr.		

CFA MU 196: Jazz Workshop
	The Jazz Workshop is for those who wish to learn more about the art of playing jazz. This ensemble focuses on improvisation and education in the jazz style. The Jazz Workshop performs one concert per semester. Auditions take place during the first week of classes in the fall. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 1 cr.		

CFA MU 197: All-Campus Orchestra
	The All-Campus Orchestra is a full concert orchestra with auditions open to anyone in the Boston University community. The orchestra meets Tuesday and Thursday evenings from 7:00-9:00 p.m. and performs four times throughout the academic year.  The orchestra is an audition-only ensemble with a limited number of wind and percussion chairs. Under the direction of Mark Miller, the All-Campus Orchestra is a large ensemble devoted to the study and performance of orchestral music. Participation in the ACO gives student musicians the tools, experience and understanding to appreciate music for the rest of their lives, either as discerning listeners or as participants in the vibrant world of amateur music-making. For more information please visit www.bu.edu/bands 1 cr.		

CFA MU 199: Symphonic Chorus
			

CFA MU 795: Master's Thesis
	Ongoing work toward completion of master's thesis. 3 cr. 		

CFA MU 888: Continuing Study CFT (Certified Full Time)
	This is a continuing studies course designed for graduate students who have not yet had their thesis or dissertation proposals approved.  		

CFA MU 995: Dma Dissrtation
	This course description is currently under construction.		

CFA MU 996: DMA Dissertation Continuing Study
	Ongoing work toward completion of the DMA terminal project; dissertation, doctoral composition or comparable approved project. This is for students who ahve completed their first semester of dissertation work and are continuing to work toward completion of the degree. Students must register for MU996 in every semester through graduation. 		

CFA MU 998: DMA Recital Track Continuing Study
	Ongoing work by degree candidates toward completion of the DMA recital track requirements.  During the semesters in which students give a recital, they must register for lessons. All other semesters they should register for MU998. Students must register either for lessons or for MU998 in every semester through graduation.  		

CFA MU 999: DMA Continuing Study for International Students
	Certification of Full Time Status for those in the Doctor of Musical Arts degree program. For International students only, who are continuing their degree requirements and are registered for fewer than 7 credits.		

CFA TH 099: Matinee
	Each semester that a BFA candidate is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Matinee (Performance A1 or Design & Production B1-J1). This is a non-credit course that encompasses a variety of components such as matinee productions, guest artist visits, alumni visits, master classes, make-up classes, and other special events.   For BFA Performance majors, the course blocks off weekly meeting times (Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays from 4-6 pm) and students are required to keep these weekly times free. The course does not necessarily meet on a regular basis, and use of these meeting times is at the discretion of SOT faculty/staff.   Additionally, students are required to complete a Process Paper at the end of each semester, reflecting on the progress and development they experience in that semester. Due at the end of each semester, Process Paper guidelines are outlined in the "current student" section of the SOT website and must not only reflect work experienced within SOT training, but also comment and respond to an experience the student had attending a School of Music and a School of Visual Arts event during that semester.  0.0 credits, Fall & Spring		

CFA TH 100: Matinee
	Each semester that a D&P, BFA, or MFA candidate is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Matinee (CFA TH099 or CFA TH100). This is a non-credit course that encompasses a variety of components such as matinee productions, guest artist visits, alumni visits, master classes, make-up classes, and other special events. Additionally, students are required to complete a paper at the end of each semester commenting on an experience the student had attending a School of Music and a School of Visual Arts event during that semester. 0.0 credits		

CFA TH 101: Introduction to Aesthetics and Dramatic Literature
	An intensive examination of scripts from diverse periods and genres. Emphasis is placed on the development of the analytical and interpretive skills necessary for the creation of insightful theatre. Course is required for BFA Freshmen Core (Performance/Design & Production) as well as Theatre Minors. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 102: Dramatic Literature 1: Greeks to the late 19th c
	A survey of the development of theatre, its plays, trends, and technologies, from the Greeks to the late nineteenth century. Emphasis is on the total theatrical event, what the performance might have been, and how it might have related to its audience. 3.0 credits. Spring semester only. 		

CFA TH 110: Speech Communications
	This course will apply theatre techniques to speaking in public in order to free the speaker's use of: relaxation, presence, focus, breath, articulation, projection, silence, stillness, and gesture.  Students will learn how to connect with an audience, clearly communicate ideas, and tell a story with confidence.  Preparation of readings in prose and poetry. 4.0 credits.		

CFA TH 112: Voice & Speech 1: Emotional Awareness
	Prereq: CFA TH 111 or consent of instructor; Having begun to free the voice and connect it with one's own words and experience, poetic texts will now be used that make a demand on the range, power, and vitality of the voice and the truthful communication of self will be the touchstone for the truthfulness which the actor can communicate someone other than him or herself. Continuing to free and strengthen the voice and introducing the development of the resonators, breath, power, range, and articulation. Required for Freshmen BFA Performance Core. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 120: Acting & Performance 1
	Acting is behaving believably in imaginary circumstances. This course will explore techniques to hone the imagination through improvisations, play, and imagination. Students will learn to clarify dramatic action, understand given circumstances, and notice sensory perceptions through physical, vocal, and emotional exercises. Students will work with monologues and scenes to develop believable actions in performance. The core to learning acting is generosity, simplicity, specificity, and focus.  Specific approach may vary by instructor, consult course syllabus for most detailed breakdown of class mission.  4.0 credits. Fall & Spring semesters.		

CFA TH 121: Acting 1: Personal Approach to Acting
	Explores individuality through relaxation, imagination and improvisation. Builds pathways to physical and emotional awareness, and clarity of thought. Develops an awareness of inner impulses and how to make them the basis for spontaneous interaction with others. Reading and journal of dreams will lead to the culmination of end-of-semester projects under faculty supervision. Required for Freshmen BFA Performance Core. 2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 122: Acting 1: Intro to Scene Study
	Prereq: CFA TH 121 or consent of instructor; The mission of this class is to focus the students on acting printed script through organic inter-relation of self and environment (character building and sensory work to establish place). We will explore release of individuality through improvisational exercises in relaxation and physical freedom. Observation, research, justification of action, objectives, talking, and listening are introduced as tools for understanding, then rehearsing texts for presentation. Required for Freshmen BFA Performance Core.  3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 125: Acting for Singers
	Acting for Singers		

CFA TH 128: Theatre Ensemble 1: Introduction to Theatre Making
	This course is an ensemble exploration of the making of theatre inspired by the complexities of the world around us. Through in-class exercises, reading assignments, discussion, and assigned creative writing projects, students will strive to interact with the world in new and creative ways these works and musings will be the catalyst for creating a final performance collage of work. The final performance will be conceived, written, directed, designed, and performed by the class. Course is required for BFA Freshmen Core (Performance/Design & Production). 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 130: Movement for Theater 1
	Physical conditioning, improvisations, some dance techniques and styles, concepts of effort/shape, interrelation of body and voice. Open to BU Community. 4.0 credits. Fall only. 		

CFA TH 131: Movement 1: Introduction to Movement for Theatre
	Developing and appreciating an expressive body. The first semester emphasizes connecting to imagery and impulses, risk-taking, centering, alignment, stretching, and strengthening exercises, and taking care of one's body, with an introduction to Viewpoints, a 3-Part Warm-up, and anatomy. Required for Freshmen BFA Performance Core.  2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 132: Movement 1: History and Styles of Dance for Theatre
	Prereq: CFA TH 131; Musicality, expressiveness, and imagery through movement. The work includes researching and experiencing historical styles and collaborations of dance, theatre, music, and visual artists of the 20th century. Required for Freshmen BFA Performance Core.  2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 138: Alexander Technique 1: An Introduction
	Explore in depth the principles of F.M. Alexander's work, including direction, non-doing and faculty sensory perception. Begin to look at habitual patterns. Introduction to how the body is designed to function for maximum flexibility and ease. Required for Freshmen BFA Performance Core.  1.0 credit. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 139: 20th Century Dance History
	An introduction to the people, events and masterworks that shaped the development of dance in the twentieth century. Course includes lectures, viewing videos and films, select readings and discussions. Course does not presuppose a technical knowledge of dance.		

CFA TH 140: Collaborative Theatre Ensemble
	Students work collaboratively and creatively as actors, writers, musicians, directors, etc., to develop a short theatre piece. Students learn the basic skills of actor performance as well as the basic principles of an ensemble theatrical experience. 4.0 credits. 		

CFA TH 147: Stagecraft 1: Introduction to Theatre Practice
	Meets late afternoons, evenings, and/or weekends. Basic training in theatre technology, including scenery, costumes, properties, lighting, and sound. Discussion of basic terminology, shop organization, job descriptions, maintenance procedures, and safety. Specific production assignments as Run Crew, Wardrobe, Front of House, Board Operator or other duties as necessary in the mounting of student or professional productions. Required for Freshmen BFA Performance Core.  1.0 credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 148: Stagecraft 2: Production Assignment
	Prereq: CFA TH 147 or consent of instructor; Open to BFA majors ONLY. Meets late afternoons, evenings, and/or weekends. Specific production assignments as Run Crew, Wardrobe, Front of House, Board Operator or other duties as necessary in the mounting of student or professional productions. Required for Freshmen BFA Performance Core.  1.0 credit. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 149: Stagecraft for Theatre Minors
	Open to Theatre Minors ONLY. Meets late afternoons, evenings, and/or weekends. Specific production assignments as Run Crew, Wardrobe, Front of House, Board Operator, or other duties as necessary in the mounting of student or professional productions. 1.0 credit. Fall & Spring semesters.		

CFA TH 150: Summer Theatre Institute
	The Boston University Summer Theatre Institute is an immersive five-week program focused on theatre-making for serious and highly-motivated high school students. It is designed for those who wish to test their interests and abilities in a professional conservatory training environment. In this program, students develop confidence and technique, acquire insight and expertise, and learn to meet intellectual and artistic challenges in all aspects of the craft (performance, creation, design, and practice). 4.0 credits. Summer Term 2.		

CFA TH 151: Introduction to Design
	Prereq: None; Meets 1 day/week for 2 hours/day. An introduction to the principles of 2D design through graphic studio exercises involving use of varied media in black and white. (Spring semester works with color). Does not presuppose any artistic skills. Permission required. Required for Freshman BFA Design & Production Core.  2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 152: Introduction to Design
	Prereq: CFA TH 153; Meets 1 day/week for 2 hours/day. An introduction to the principles of 2D design through graphic studio exercises involving use of varied media. Work is based on fall semester work in black and white, adding color. Required for Freshman BFA Design & Production Core. 2.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 153: Freshman Core: Preparation for Ensemble
	Prereq: None; Studio class that introduces Design & Production freshman to performance techniques that will be used in Spring semester ensemble class.  Exercises focus on accessing emotion, being present and engaged in a performance. Required for Freshman BFA Design & Production Core.  1.0 credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 154: Freshman Core: Preparation for Major
	Prereq: None; Series of lectures that introduce Design & Production freshman to Design & Production faculty, area professionals and artists in preparation for choosing a major. Required for Freshman BFA Design & Production Core.  1.0 credit. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 160: AutoCad1
	Prereq: CFA TH 163; Introduction to Computer Aided Drafting program. Basic terminology, plate organization and technical drafting for Technical Production majors.  Requirement variable for Freshman BFA Design & Production and Performance Core. 1.0 credit. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 162: Vectorworks
	Prereq: CFA TH 169; Introduction to Computer Aided Drafting program.   Basic terminology, plate organization and technical drafting for Lighting and Sound designers.  Requirement variable for Freshman BFA Design & Production and Performance Core. 1.0 credit. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 163: Drafting 1
	Prereq: None; Introduction to theatre space and vocabulary through hand drafting.  Basic techniques, tools and approach to communicating 3 dimensional objects in 2 D including orthographic projections, ground plans and sections. Required for Freshman BFA Design & Production Core. 1.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 164: Drafting 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 163; Continued exercises in theatre space and vocabulary through hand drafting.  Advanced techniques communicating 3 dimensional objects in 2 D including mechanical perspective, detail drafting, package layout and execution.  1.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 167: Drawing & Painting Lab 1
	Prereq: None; An introduction to artistic creation using various media and transfer techniques. Work in the fall includes working with color theory, painting and drawing. Required for Freshman BFA Design & Production Core. 2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 168: Drawing & Painting Lab 2
	Prereq: None; An introduction to artistic creation using various media and transfer techniques. Work in the spring focuses on developing a visual vocabulary to execute observed and mechanical perspective drawing. Required for Freshman BFA Design & Production Core. 2.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 169: Introduction to Theatre Practice
	Prereq: None; Basic training in theatre technology, including scenery, costumes, properties, lighting, and sound. Discussion of basic terminology, shop organization, job descriptions, maintenance procedures, and safety. . Required for Freshman BFA Design & Production and Performance Core. 2.0 credits.  		

CFA TH 170: Scene Construction
	Prereq: TH169; Methods of Construction focusing on theatrical scenery construction and theatre technology. Further discussion of basic terminology, shop organization, job descriptions, maintenance procedures, and safety.  Requirement variable for Freshman BFA Design & Production and Performance Core. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 177: Figure Drawing
	Prereq: None; Studio work in figure drawing.  Emphasis on drawing techniques and media through observation. May be repeated for credit. 1.0 credits. 		

CFA TH 178: Figure Drawing
	Prereq: None; Studio work in figure drawing.  Emphasis on drawing techniques and media through observation. Requirement variable for Freshman BFA Design & Production Core. 1.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 182: Costume Construction
	Prereq: CFA TH 169; Methods of Construction focusing on theatrical costume construction and technology. Further discussion of basic terminology, shop organization, job descriptions, maintenance procedures, and safety. Requirement variable for Freshman BFA Design & Production Core. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.    		

CFA TH 186: Lighting Crafts
	Prereq: CFA TH 169; Methods of Construction focusing on theatrical lighting and technology. Further discussion of basic terminology, shop organization, job descriptions, maintenance procedures, and safety. Requirement variable for Freshman BFA Design & Production Core. 1.0 credits. Spring semester.  		

CFA TH 190: Audio Fundamentals
	Prereq: CFA TH 169; Methods of Construction focusing on theatrical sound design and technology. Further discussion of basic terminology, shop organization, job descriptions, maintenance procedures, and safety. Requirement variable for Freshman BFA Design & Production Core. 1.0 credits. Fall & Spring semester.		

CFA TH 194: Stage Management Fundamentals
	Prereq: CFA TH 169; Methods of Construction Functions and responsibilities of stage managing on a professional level. Examination of the job of the stage management team from prep process through rehearsals and opening.  Focusing on relationships with other departments in order to support the creative process in your role as manager.  Work involves developing the paperwork necessary to complete a typical production of a straight play. Requirement variable for Freshman BFA Design & Production Core. 1.0 credits. Spring semester		

CFA TH 197: Production
	Prereq: CFA TH 169; Practicum for freshman focusing shop experiences in scenery, costume, lighting, sound and stage management procedures, and safety. Run Crew, Wardrobe, Front of House, Board Operator or other duties as necessary in the mounting of student or professional productions. T,W,Th evenings and weekends depending on assignment. Required for Freshman BFA Design & Production Core. 2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 198: Production
	Prereq: CFA TH 169; Practicum for freshman focusing shop experiences in scenery, costume, lighting, sound and stage management procedures, and safety. Run Crew, Wardrobe, Front of House, Board Operator or other duties as necessary in the mounting of student or professional productions. T,W,Th evenings and weekends depending on assignment. Required for Freshman BFA Design & Production Core. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 201: Dramatic Literature 2: 1850 to 1950
	A survey of important plays and trends of the theatre from 1850 to 1950, with an emphasis on American and European dramatists. Students should expect frequent writing assignments. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 202: Dramatic Literature 3: 1950 to 1990
	A survey of important plays and trends from 1950-1990, with an emphasis on the play's significance within the given culture. We will examine North American, British, European, and African writers, with a balance between recognized canonical works, and plays by writers historically excluded from the canon due to gender, ethnicity, or aesthetic orientation. Students should expect frequent writing assignments. 3.0 credits. Spring semester only. 		

CFA TH 203: Role of the Playwright 1
	This course description is currently under construction. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 204: Role of the Playwright 2
	This course description is currently under construction. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 211: Voice & Speech 2: Introduction to IPA
	Prereq: CFA TH 112. Further development of the actor's voice in range and power, flexibility and greater facility in articulation. Introduction of International Phonetic Alphabet, responsiveness to poetic text. 2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 212: Voice & Speech 2: Dialects
	Prereq: CFA TH 211 or consent of instructor; Sound and movement linked to text. Introduction to speaking Shakespeare. Dialects and characterization as they relate to voice and speech. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 214: Voice & Speech 2: Introduction to
	Prereq: CFA TH211 or consent of Instructor; Sound and movement linked to text. Introduction to speaking Shakespeare. Dialects and characterization as they relate to voice and speech. 2 credits; 2nd semester. 		

CFA TH 215: Singing for Actors 1
	Prereq: CFA TH 112 or consent of instructor; An approach to singing designed for the actor, this course will explore human sound as a manifestation of the actor's inner life. The vocal training central to this class will focus expanding range and character, and emphasizes efficient use of breath, a released body, and physical grounding. There is a special emphasis on the connection between the voice and the personality of each student. No previous singing experience required. 1.0 credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 216: Singing for Actors 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 112 or consent of instructor; An extension of Singing for Actors 1, this course will move into an approach to learning a new music-text, and exploring the storytelling of song through imagery, Laban effort-shapes, physical actions, and energizing primers for the actor. There is a special emphasis on the use of speech and legato in song, allowing for vocal clarity and ease. Repertoire will be drawn from Musical Theatre and the Classical Art Song. 1.0 credit. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 220: Acting & Performance 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 120 or consent of instructor; The mission of this class is to focus the students on acting printed script through organic inter-relation of self and environment (character building and sensory work to establish place). We will explore release of individuality through improvisational exercises in relaxation and physical freedom. Observation, research, justification of action, objectives, talking and listening are introduced as tools for understanding, then rehearsing texts for presentation.  Specific approach may vary by instructor, consult course syllabus for most detailed breakdown of class mission. 4.0 credits. Fall & Spring semesters.  		

CFA TH 221: Acting 2: The ActorÂs Job in Rehearsal & Performance of a Play
	Prereq: CFA TH 122; Work on a part: breakdown of text into actions, objectives, beats; sensory work and its application to script. Developing and sustaining characters and action in increasingly complex texts. Exploration and skill work will grow into rehearsal and performance of a play at the end of the semester. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 222: Fundamentals of Acting: A Physical Approach
	Prereq: CFA TH 122; Exploration of a physical approach to acting inspired by the work of Jerzy Grotowski. Students will engage in physical and vocal exercises that facilitate psycho-physical connections within the self. The actor's expressive use of the body, voice, imagination, and intellect is awakened and nourished. Possible pathways through the actor's mental and physical structure are navigated, opening up the connections between the body and the actor's emotional life. Investigation and exploration of principles in action will be encouraged and lead to transition into text and character work. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 223: Fundamentals of Acting: A Physical
	Fundamentals of Acting: A Physical 		

CFA TH 224: Fundamentals of Acting: Narrative and Imagery
	Prereq: CFA TH 122; The essential aspects of the actor's approach to the script and the development of a character. This class focuses on acting printed script through organic inter-relation of self and environment (character building and sensory work to establish place). The course explores the release of individuality through improvisational exercises in relaxation and physical freedom. Observation, research, justification of action, objectives, talking, and listening are introduced as tools for understanding, then rehearsing texts for presentation. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 227: Theatre Ensemble 2: Autobiography
	Prereq: CFA TH 128; This course is designed to develop the student's ability to write, direct and act in autobiographically based theatre pieces. Students will develop autobiographical work through a series of in-class and assigned writing explorations. In addition, students will be exposed to a variety of readings and performances by autobiographical artists. A final ensemble driven, organized, and executed performance will result. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 228: Theatre Ensemble 2: Adaptation
	Prereq: CFA TH 128; This course is an experiential introduction to adaptation. Through class readings, assignments, and theatrical excursions, students will begin to understand the nuts and bolts of translating work from one medium to another. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.   		

CFA TH 231: Movement 2: Awareness of Self into Physical Transformation
	Prereq: CFA TH 132; Deepening awareness of self and exploring techniques for physical transformations through body centers, Laban, Chakras, Breath Rhythms, animal imagery, and neutral mask work. 2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 232: Movement 2: Unarmed Combat
	Prereq: CFA TH 231 or consent of instructor; Unarmed stage combat. Learning slaps, punches, throws, lifts, falls and found weapons, and the application of fight choreography in scene work. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 237: Alexander Technique 2: Primary Control
	Prereq: CFA TH 138; Developing a deeper understanding of Alexander's primary control, related to the vocal mechanism, the respiratory system, and fear responses, both in self and character. Concepts of wholeness and evolutionary design are presented. 1.0 credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 238: Alexander Technique 2: Environmental Response
	Prereq: CFA TH 237 or instructor's permission. Work is explored more in developing characters as they move, speak, breathe and respond to the environment. Continue to embody the Alexander principles and learn Alexander procedures. 1.0 credit. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 239: Aesthetic and Philosophy of Dance
	Designed to increase students' knowledge of the theory and practice of dance criticism. Organized as a seminar, we will read and discuss articles by theorists and critics in preparation for articulating reasoned assessments verbally and in writing. There are five assigned theatre and dance performances to attend. Lectures by faculty and visiting artists introduce each performance/exhibition experience and lead to thoughtful critical responses. Prior knowledge or some form of dance helpful but not essential. (Also listed as PDP DA 239) 		

CFA TH 240: Beginning Directing
	A consideration and introduction of the basic tasks of play direction from script selection through opening night, emphasizing script analysis and interpretation and their projection into staging as well as the process of working with a creative design team and an ensemble cast. Consult course syllabus for most detailed breakdown of class mission. 2 cr. Tuition: $TBD/credit		

CFA TH 247: Stagecraft 3: Advanced Production
	Prereq: CFA TH 147 & CFA TH 148; For BFA majors ONLY. Meets late afternoons, evenings, and/or weekends. Specific production assignments as Run Crew, Wardrobe, Front of House, Board Operator or other duties as necessary in the mounting of student or professional productions. 1 credit. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 248: Rehearsal & Performance 1
	Rehearsal/Performance & Production assignment work for participation in the School of Theatre Quarter 3 and Quarter 4 productions. Faculty assignment is based on faculty advising on a given production, all students should first register for the "X1-Staff" section at 1.0 credit per quarter of casting. After the student has been cast, they will be re-sectioned to the appropriate faculty advisor in charge of grading for that project. Course for SOT population only. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 250: Summer Theatre Institute 2.0
	Prereq: CFA TH 150; The Boston University Summer Theatre Institute 2.0 program is an advanced continuation of the immersive five-week program focused on theatre-making for serious and highly-motivated high school students. For students looking to repeat the summer immersion, the 2.0 program offers a further developed progression of studio training, skill building, and practical application. The program is offered to both advanced high school students as well as those already in the first year of an undergraduate experience. 4.0 credits. Summer Term 2.		

CFA TH 255: History of Costume 1
	Prereq: None; An intensive survey covering the history of significant cultural expression in dress of Western Civilization. Work involves research projects with emphasis on color, materials, manufacture and application toward a definition of styles. 2.0 credits. Fall semester. Offered in even numbered AY only.		

CFA TH 256: History of Costume 2
	Prereq: None; An intensive survey covering the history of significant cultural expression in dress of Western Civilization. Work involves research projects with emphasis on color, materials, manufacture and application toward a definition of styles. 2.0 credits. Spring semester. Offered in even numbered AY only.		

CFA TH 259: AutoCad 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 160 or CFA TH 163 or consent of instructor; A continuation of AutoCAd 1 as a more advanced, in-depth study of AutoCad.  Goals will be based on improving the speed of drawing production and learning new tools ot help fit the specific needs of the student's area of focus. 1.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 261: Vectorworks 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 162 or consent of instructor; Advanced work in Vectorworks CAD; specific rendering techniques for the individual area of lighting and the light plot. 1.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 262: Vectorworks 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 261; Advanced work in Vectorworks CAD; specific rendering techniques for the individual area of lighting and the light plot. 1.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 263: Scene Design 1
	Prereq: None; Fundamentals of set design theory; basic mechanical and conceptual solutions for the proscenium theatre; development of presentational and research skills. Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance, opera, television, and film. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 264: Scene Design 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 263 or consent of instructor; Continuation of set design theory; basic mechanical and conceptual solutions for the proscenium theatre; development of presentational and research skills. Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance, opera, television, and film. 3.0 credits.  Spring semester.		

CFA TH 265: Scene Painting 1
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Studio class. Exposure to materials and tools used in theatrical scene painting.  Exercises in general lay-in texture techniques and beginning work in nature studies. 2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 266: Scene Painting 2
	Prereq: TH265 or consent of instructor; Studio class. Continuation of exposure to materials and tools used in theatrical scene painting.  Exercises in general lay-in texture techniques and beginning work in nature studies. 2.0 credits. Fall semester.   		

CFA TH 267: Scene Painting Intensive
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Studio class intensive. Exercises in scene painting ranging from fundamentals to advanced techniques including layout, transferring and executing scenic painting projects. Summer Term Only. Materials costs are extra. 4 cr. Tuition: $TBD/credit		

CFA TH 269: Technical Production 1
	Prereq: CFA TH160 & CFA TH170 or consent of instructor; The primary focus is on the task of communicating in projection view drafting for construction purposes. The drafting is applied to projects constructed in steel. During the class period, construction decision-making is reviewed. Fundamentals of metal work and the craft of welding are learned. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 270: Technical Production 2
	Prereq: CFA TH269; A continuation of TP 1. The primary focus is on the task of communicating in projection view drafting for construction purposes. The drafting is applied to projects constructed in steel. During the class period, construction decision-making is reviewed. Fundamentals of metal work and the craft of welding are learned. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 271: Theatrical Welding 1
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; An introduction to welding technology explaining and outlining welding safety and the best welding practices for theatre. Course covers cutting, drilling and assembling mild steel for theatrical scenic construction. 2.0 credits. Fall semester.   		

CFA TH 272: Theatrical Welding 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 271; Advanced techniques in welding technology explaining and outlining welding safety and the best welding practices for theatre. Course covers cutting, drilling and assembling mild steel for theatrical scenic construction. 2.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 275: Costume Design 1
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Fundamentals of costume design. Exercises focus on analysis-designing from the inside out. Covers a range of visual, written, and verbal techniques of communication; script analysis, style, research techniques, and rendering skills. Readings and projects may incorporate all theatre genres. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 276: Costume Design 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 275; A continuation of CFA TH 275, Costume Design 1. Fundamentals of costume design. Exercises focus on analysis-designing from the inside out. Covers a range of visual, written, and verbal techniques of communication; script analysis, style, research techniques, and rendering skills. Readings and projects may incorporate all theatre genres. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 277: Costume Rendering Lab 1
	Prereq: Advisor Recommendation or Instructor Consent; Advanced work in figure drawing; specific rendering techniques for costume design. May be repeated for credit. 1.0 credit. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 278: Costume Rendering Lab 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 277; Continuation of CFA TH 277. Advanced work in figure drawing; specific rendering techniques for costume design. May be repeated for credit. 1.0 credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 279: Costume Production 1
	Prereq: CFA TH 182, advisor recommendation, or consent of instructor. An in depth study of pattern making for the female silhouette. Draping and flat patterning techniques are augmented with historical research in pattern development. The student develops a thorough understanding of the form and function of each element of the female costume. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 280: Costume Production 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 279; A continuation of CFA TH 279. An in depth study of pattern making for the female silhouette. Draping and flat patterning techniques are augmented with historical research in pattern development. The student develops a thorough understanding of the form and function of each element of the female costume. 3.0 credits.  Fall semester.		

CFA TH 281: Intro to Textiles 1
	Prereq: Advisor Recommendation or Instructor Consent; The course will cover identification and use of a variety of different fabrics including theatrical goods. It will include a brief history of textiles in conjunction with a focused overview of patterns, colors and fibers that developed and were used over a period of time as a result of growth within the industry. Scheduled trips to the Textile Museum in Lowell and the Museum of Fine Arts will support and enhance the student's experience with the subject. 1.0 credit. Fall semester. Every other odd numbered AY.		

CFA TH 282: Intro to Textiles 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 281; A continuation of CFA TH 281.  The course will cover identification and use of a variety of different fabrics including theatrical goods. It will include a brief history of textiles in conjunction with a focused overview of patterns, colors and fibers that developed and were used over a period of time as a result of growth within the industry. Scheduled trips to the Textile Museum in Lowell and the Museum of Fine Arts will support and enhance the student's experience with the subject. 1.0 credit. Spring semester. Every other odd numbered AY.		

CFA TH 283: Lighting Design 1
	Prereq: CFA TH 162 & CFA TH 186, or consent of instructor; Introduction to the art and craft of lighting design for the stage. Explores the lighting design process, how to develop lighting ideas, concepts, and visual images from a text, and how to support those ideas to the point of realization. Required Labs will supplement class work with hands-on activities. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 284: Lighting Design 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 283; A continuation of CFA TH 283.  Introduction to the art and craft of lighting design for the stage. Explores the lighting design process, how to develop lighting ideas, concepts, and visual images from a text, and how to support those ideas to the point of realization. Required Labs will supplement class work with hands-on activities. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 287: Sound Design 1
	Prereq: CFA TH 162 & CFA TH 190, or consent of instructor; An overview of theatrical sound design, focusing on the process of creating a design. The emphasis is on sound cue creation, establishing mood, emotion and environment with sound, and critical listening. Covers the basics of the tools and technology used to implement a professional sound design. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 288: Sound Design 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 287; A continuation of CFA TH 287; An overview of theatrical sound design, focusing on the process of creating a design. The emphasis is on sound cue creation, establishing mood, emotion and environment with sound, and critical listening. Covers the basics of the tools and technology used to implement a professional sound design. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 289: Production Audio 1
	Prereq: CFA TH 162 & CFA TH 190, or consent of instructor; Audio systems, video systems and intercom systems will be examined from input to output in terms of signal flow and interconnection practices and how they are used. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 290: Production Audio 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 289; A continuation of CFA TH 289. Audio systems, video systems and intercom systems will be examined from input to output in terms of signal flow and interconnection practices and how they are used. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 293: Stage Management Skills Lab
	Prereq: CFA TH 194 or consent of instructor; Addresses common forms of stage management paperwork, computer skills, problem solving, union rules, familiarity with various theaters and forms of theater and beginnings of team management. 0.5 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 297: Production
	Prereq: CFA TH 198; Each semester that a sophomore Design & Production BFA candidate is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Production.  Meets late afternoons, evenings and/or weekends.  Specific design and shop work in the mounting of student or professional productions. Does not include off-crew design work. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 298: Production
	Prereq: CFA TH 297; Each semester that a sophomore Design & Production BFA candidate is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Production.  Meets late afternoons, evenings and/or weekends.  Specific design and shop work in the mounting of student or professional productions. Does not include off-crew design work. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 301: The Thinking Theatre
	To reconcile the ancient dispute between poetry and philosophy is an ambitious charge. Socrates brings up signs of "this old opposition" in book 10 of Plato's Republic, so even for Plato the dispute was seemingly long-standing. Throughout their turbulent histories, theater and philosophy have been variously entangled with each other, forming strategic alliances, enmities, and enduring bonds. This course will examine the dynamics underlying this entanglement by asking how philosophy uses the resources of theater (such as the dialogue form) and how the theatre can become a venue to stage ideas. We will examine how theater and philosophy converge through a cast of philosophical characters who force us to consider not only the drama of ideas, but the performance of ideas as well. Questions to be considered include: For the theatre, how are we able to perform ideas? For philosophy, what is the impact of material bodies on stage trying to enact philosophical concepts? 4 cr. Tuition: $TBD/credit   		

CFA TH 303: Playwriting 1
	Prereq: CFA TH 203, CFA TH 204, CFA TH 227, CFA TH 228 or consent of instructor; Run like an intensive development workshop, this class offers students an introduction to the practice of playwriting through the exploration of dramatic texts and writing exercises. Students will develop writing processes conducive to accessing an authentic voice, rendering interesting characters, and building character relationships. Students should also develop a refined awareness of their artistic power to shape and control a theatrical reality. Students interested in developing original plays for thesis productions are encouraged to register. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 311: Voice & Speech 3: Classical Voice
	Prereq: CFA TH 212; An exploration of a variety of approaches to Shakespeare's text, with an attempt to unify form and content. Developing and strengthening the voice and exploring the anatomy of language. Vowels and consonants, words and images, phrasing, and the intelligent orchestration of these components into overall meaning. The figures of speech, iamic pentameter, rhythm, line endings, verse and prose. 2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 312: Voice & Speech - LAMBDA
	Students will develop an understanding of vocal anatomy and physiology (with particular reference to the organs of speech), an understanding of the International Phonetic Alphabet and Cardinal Vowels, as well as analysis of their own accents. In addition, students will develop knowledge and practice of Stage Standard English (Received Pronunciation), release of unhelpful vocal tension, develop an understanding of clear articulation, and the ability to phonetically transcribe nonsense words. 3.0 credits. Spring semester. Course offered through the London Academy of Dramatic Arts.		

CFA TH 314: Voice & Performance Â AREZZO
	This course is designed for the student who is engaged in the specific demands of physical theatre and masked performance. The student actor will be led through a carefully guided but very thorough vocal and physical warm-up, right up to performance. A series of rigorous exercises and improvisations will stimulate the students' integration of voice, body and imagination and will extend the boundaries of vocal potential to explore the monstrous, the grotesque and the ridiculous. Students will develop greater range, flexibility, sustaining power and emotional presence through concentrating on the sung sound and systematically challenging their boundaries in terms of pitch and quality. 3.0 credits. Spring semester. Course offered through the Accademia dell'Arte.		

CFA TH 315: Musical Theatre Performance Lab 1
	Prereq: CFA TH 215, CFA TH 216 or consent of instructor; Musical Theatre Performance Lab is an advanced performing and coaching class to which singers will bring songs from Musical Theatre for performance, further developing and investigating the ideas of Singing for Actors 1 & 2. Coaching will include attention to the combination of vocal and acting skills, text, and style. Focus is on the singer-actor as a song interpreter who may actively experience being fully connected to a song with mind, body, and emotion. 1.0 credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 316: Musical Theatre Performance Lab 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 215, CFA TH 216 or consent of instructor; Musical Theatre Performance Lab is an advanced performing and coaching class to which singers will bring songs from Musical Theatre for performance, further developing and investigating the ideas of Singing for Actors 1 & 2. Coaching will include attention to the combination of vocal and acting skills, text, and style. Focus is on the singer-actor as a song interpreter who may actively experience being fully connected to a song with mind, body, and emotion. 1.0 credit. Spring semester.  		

CFA TH 320: Advanced Acting & Performance
	Prereq: CFA TH 220 or instructor permission; This course is designed to offer a more advanced and rigorous training sequence for students who have completed both "Acting & Performance 1" and "Acting & Performance 2." The course will include improvisation and scene study to enhance the student's experience of character, onstage relationship, place and event. Scenes from selected plays will provide the material for application of acting rehearsal technique. 4.0 credits.		

CFA TH 321: Acting 3: Shakespeare
	Acting 3: Shakespeare		

CFA TH 322: Acting: Shakespeare - LAMDA
	Students in these courses will develop a sustained focus in class work, rehearsals and scene showings, while learning to translate feelings and experience into characterization. Emphasis is placed on awareness of weight, space and time with respect to character, as well as liberated imagination, to develop freedom to explore a character. Improvisation and short scene study develop awareness of different classical styles of play writing, with research and presentation of different social relationships. 4.0 credits. Spring semester. Course offered through the London Academy of Dramatic Arts.		

CFA TH 323: Advanced Physical Approach to Acting
	Prereq: CFA TH 222 or CFA TH 223; A further examination of a physical approach to acting building upon the work of the previous semesters. Independently motivated investigation of principles in action will be encouraged. The opportunity for each actor to deepen his/her work through continued exploration of psycho-physical connections will arise. Rigorous physical training, object exploration, vocal proposal experimentation, creation and execution of physical action scores. Application to text and character work and the making of a montage in collaboration with fellow actors. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 324: Acting: Restoration - LAMDA
	Students in these courses will develop a sustained focus in class work, rehearsals and scene showings, while learning to translate feelings and experience into characterization. Emphasis is placed on awareness of weight, space and time with respect to character, as well as liberated imagination, to develop freedom to explore a character. Improvisation and short scene study develop awareness of different classical styles of play writing, with research and presentation of different social relationships. 3.0 credits. Spring semester. Course offered through the London Academy of Dramatic Arts.  		

CFA TH 326: Commedia dellÂArte Â AREZZO
	This acting class will develop the practical use of the masks of the stock characters of the Commedia dell'arte. Through work on gesture, voice and movement within a specific socio/historical context, students will explore the characteristics of Arlechino, Zanni, Brighella, Pantalone, Colombina and others, with the intention of developing the student's own personal version of the character. The application of Commedia masks in comic traditions from Goldoni through Gozzi to MoliÃ¨re and Marivaux may also be a feature of this course, depending on faculty. 3.0 credits. Spring semester. Course offered through the Accademia dell'Arte.		

CFA TH 327: Theatre Ensemble 3: Acting/Directing Lab
	Prereq: CFA TH 128 and either CFA TH 227 or CFA TH 228 or instructor permission; In this acting/directing workshop, a series of scene assignments and short plays provide students with multiple opportunities to exercise and enhance their rehearsal and performance skills. The course emphasizes diagnosing and addressing rehearsal challenges. The workshop culminates in 'The Director's Project,' an evening of ten-minute plays acted and directed (and, when feasible, written) by students. Those wishing to direct must be concurrently registered in CFA TH 341. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 328: Extended Performance Topics Â AREZZO
	Designed as an introduction to the methods and aims of physical theatre, this course is a selection of movement and acting options that reflect the inter-disciplinary thrust of the program. Depending on visiting faculty and on-going developments in the program, students will be exposed to techniques that integrally connect to the core substance of the training. 3.0 credits. Spring semester. Course offered through the Accademia dell'Arte.		

CFA TH 330: Philosophy of Art & Performance - AREZZO
	This course brings together the writings of philosophers and the work of artists from a variety of domains. The goal is not to intellectualize art but to understand the intelligence that goes into it, to enrich our experiences of art, and to foster our own creative sensibilities. Students will consider famous writings on art by thinkers such as Plato, Aristotle, Schiller, Hegel, Marx, Nietzsche, Heidegger, Breton, Artaud, Eisenstein, Debord, Baudrillard, Foucault and others in relation to important works of literature, theatre, painting, music, architecture and film. 3.0 credits. Spring semester. Course offered through the Accademia dell'Arte.		

CFA TH 331: Movement 3: Armed Combat
	Prereq: CFA TH 232 or consent of instructor; Use of rapier, dagger, broadsword, and quarterstaff in theatrical scenes. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 332: Movement - LAMDA
	This course will help students develop group interaction skills, focus skills, physical strength and posture, while encouraging disciplined skills in free movement and suspend and fall. Students will work on stretching, extending and strengthening skills, as well as retention and attention to detail in movement and dance. Further training involves complicit play and understanding of rhythms, interpretive movement improvisation, basic stage combat, technical movement in relation to mime, and comedic character movements. It explores various styles of movement. Further works in Alexander techniques and improvisation supplement the teaching. 3.0 credits. Spring semester. Course offered through the London Academy of Dramatic Arts.		

CFA TH 334: Principles of Choreography
	Using concepts of space, rhythm, text, and content in putting movement together for theatre and dance. 2.0 credits		

CFA TH 337: Alexander Technique 3: Shakespeare
	Prereq: CFA TH 238; Focus on Alexander Technique and Shakespeare, including: organic iambic pentameter movement, dynamics of status, intensity with less tension, and responding to inner and outer environment consciously. 1.0 credit. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 338: Historic Dance - LAMDA
	Utilizing the foundation of movement, students will develop an understanding of the dances and social background of the Elizabethan period, the 17th through the 19th Centuries with sessions devoted to Flamenco. Students will develop spatial awareness, period empathy with respect to the techniques, poise and deportment, as well as achieving a recognition of poor posture, muscular tension, and release of energy and anxiety levels in a constructive way. Styles of dance including commedia dell'arte, court dance, and other period forms will be explored. 3.0 credits. Spring semester. Course offered through the London Academy of Dramatic Arts.		

CFA TH 341: Undergraduate Directing Colloquium 1
	Prereq: CFA TH 240; Development of an approach to conceiving a theatre production and forum for young directors to discuss and share the challenges/discoveries of their process. Definition of people, situations, ideas, action and flow inherent in script interpretation. Identification of form and structure from the director's point of view. Fundamental considerations in physical staging. Experience in lab events and scenes. Requires simultaneous enrollment in CFA TH 327 for culminating work on The Director's Project. 2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 347: Rehearsal & Performance 2
	Rehearsal/Performance & Production assignment work for participation in the School of Theatre Quarter 1 and Quarter 2 productions. Faculty assignment is based on faculty advising on a given production, all students should first register for the "X1-Staff" section at 1.0 credit per quarter of casting. After the student has been cast, they will be re-sectioned to the appropriate faculty advisor in charge of grading for that project. Course for SOT population only. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 355: History of Period Styles
	Prereq: None; Survey covering the history of and significant cultural expression through interior decoration and furniture in major civilizations. Work involves research projects with emphasis on historic fabrics and construction. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 356: History of Period Styles 2
	Prereq: None; A continuation of CFA TH 355.  Survey covering the history of and significant cultural expression through interior decoration and furniture in major civilizations. Work involves research projects with emphasis on historic fabrics and construction. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.   		

CFA TH 357: History of Tailoring 1
	Prereq: CFA TH 280 or consent of instructor; This is a comprehensive course of historical classic nineteenth and twentieth century tailoring techniques, terminology and fabrics. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. Course offered only in even numbered AY.		

CFA TH 358: Hist of Tailr 2
			

CFA TH 361: Drafting 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 163 & CFA TH 164 or consent of instructor; Studio work in advanced hand drafting techniques.  Exercises include completing of drafting package including orthographic projections, true size & shape, section drawings, properties drawings, mechanical perspective drawing, package layout and design. 1.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 362: Drafting 4
	Prereq: CFA TH 361 or consent of instructor; A continuation of CFA TH 362. Studio work in advanced hand drafting techniques.  Exercises include completing of drafting package including orthographic projections, true size & shape, section drawings, properties drawings, mechanical perspective drawing, package layout and design. 1.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 363: Scene Design 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 264 or consent of instructor; Intermediate design solutions with an emphasis on conceptual approach; work in a variety of theatre spaces. Students work in collaboration with costume and lighting designers and directors. Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance, opera, television, and film. 3.0 credits.  Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 364: Scene Design 4
	Prereq: CFA TH363 or consent of instructor; Continuation of intermediate design solutions with an emphasis on conceptual approach; work in a variety of theatre spaces. Students work in collaboration with costume and lighting designers and directors. Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance, opera, television, and film. 3.0 credits.  Spring semester.		

CFA TH 365: Scene Painting 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 266 or consent of instructor; Studio class. Painting specific architectural detail; projects include stain glass, perspective and trompe l'oeil techniques; special finishes for furniture and constructed projects. 2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 366: Scene Painting 4
	Prereq: CFA TH 365 or consent of instructor. Studio class. Continuation in painting specific architectural detail; projects include stain glass, perspective and trompe l'oeil techniques; special finishes for furniture and constructed projects. 2.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 367: Properties Research
	This course description is currently under construction. 		

CFA TH 369: Technical Production 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 270 or CFA TH 670 or consent of instructor; Large scale project planning and drafting, using abstract objects and producing them as scenery both on paper and in the shop.  The class also addresses problem solving for scenery on raked stages and complete design for a modular full-stage rake that can be struck, stored and installed easily. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 370: Technical Production 4
	Prereq: CFA TH 369 or consent of instructor; A continuation of CFA TH 369. Large scale project planning and drafting, using abstract objects and producing them as scenery both on paper and in the shop.  The class also addresses problem solving for scenery on raked stages and complete design for a modular full-stage rake that can be struck, stored and installed easily. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 371: Engineering for the Stage 1
	Prereq: CFA TH 270 or consent of instructor; An introduction to the classic engineering study of static and strength of materials, specifically with structures and materials typical to technical production of theater in mind. Students learn mathematical and resource methods for calculating structural performance parameters in individual structural members as they interact in a common structure. Discussion of common building practices provides knowledge critical to departing from standard practice. 1.0 credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 372: Engineering for the Stage 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 370 or consent of instructor; A continuation of CFA TH 370. An introduction to the classic engineering study of static and strength of materials, specifically with structures and materials typical to technical production of theater in mind. Students learn mathematical and resource methods for calculating structural performance parameters in individual structural members as they interact in a common structure. Discussion of common building practices provides knowledge critical to departing from standard practice. 1.0 credit. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 373: Modern Tailor 1
			

CFA TH 374: Modern Tailor 2
			

CFA TH 375: Costume Design 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 276; For the intermediate design student.  Geared toward practical application of design theory. Continued development of script analysis, style, research techniques and rendering skills.  Exercises examine the principles of design as applied to historical costume.  Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance and opera depending on individuals in the class. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 376: Costume Design 4
	Prereq: CFA TH375; Continuation of CFA TH 375. For the intermediate design student.  Geared toward practical application of design theory. Continued development of script analysis, style, research techniques and rendering skills.  Exercises examine the principles of design as applied to historical costume.  Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance and opera depending on individuals in the class. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 377: Costume Rendering 1
	Prereq: Advisor Recommendation or Instructor Consent; Advanced work in figure drawing; specific rendering techniques or costume design. May be repeated for credit. 1.0 credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 378: Costume Rendering 2
	Prereq: Advisor Recommendation or Instructor Consent; Advanced work in figure drawing; specific rendering techniques or costume design.  May be repeated for credit. 1.0 credit. Fall semester.  		

CFA TH 379: Costume Production 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 279; In this course the student will construct a three-piece men's suit of the nineteenth or twentieth century. It is a comprehensive course employing classic tailoring techniques, terminology and fabrics. 3.0 credit. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 380: Costume Production 4
	Prereq: CFA TH 379; A continuation of CFA TH 379. In this course the student will construct a three-piece men's suit of the nineteenth or twentieth century. It is a comprehensive course employing classic tailoring techniques, terminology and fabrics. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 381: Fabric Dyeing 1
	Prereq: CFA TH 182 or consent of instructor; The student learns a variety of crafts associated with fabric painting and dyeing.  Subject matter may include fiber reactive dyeing, distressing and silk screening. Check with instructor for current semester content. 1.0 credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 382: Fabric Dyeing 2
	Prereq: CFA TH182 or consent of instructor; The student learns a variety of crafts associated with fabric painting and dyeing.  Subject matter may include fiber reactive dyeing, distressing and silk screening. Check with instructor for current semester content. 1.0 credit. Spring semester.  		

CFA TH 383: Lighting Design 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 284 or consent of instructor; Investigation of lighting design problems and procedures.  Projects for both theoretical and realized productions.  Practical projects to demonstrate lighting design techniques.  Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.   		

CFA TH 384: Lighting Design 4
	Prereq: CFA TH 383 or consent of instructor. A continuation of CFA TH 383. Investigation of lighting design problems and procedures.  Projects for both theoretical and realized productions.  Practical projects to demonstrate lighting design techniques.  Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 385: Photography 1
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; A general survey of the art and practices of photography.  Focus is especially strong in aspects of: history of artists and images, history of technology, photographic processes and basics of the camera and technology. 1.0 credits. Fall semester.   		

CFA TH 386: Photography 2
	Prereq: Instructor Consent;. A general survey of the art and practices of photography.  Focus is especially strong in aspects of: history of artists and images, history of technology, photographic processes and basics of the camera and technology. 1.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 389: Systems Design 1
	Prereq: CFA TH 162 and CFA TH 190 or consent of instructor; Audio systems, video systems and intercom systems will be examined from input to output in terms of signal flow and interconnection practices and how they are used. Offered in odd numbered years FY. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 390: Systems Dsgn 2
			

CFA TH 393: SM: Types and Styles
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Examining the types of things you can be hired to stage manage.  Examples are opera, dance, staged readings and workshops, musicals and event work.  Also investigates personal communication style, skills specific to each type of work and various union issues.  Guest speakers introduce the students to the local theatre field. Meets weekly for an hour. 1.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 395: Production Management
	Prereq: None; Roles and responsibilities of Production Managing on a professional level, including scheduling, staffing, budgeting, relationships, and time management. Students will get hands-on experience in each of these through the creation of a theoretical theatre. 2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 397: Production
	Prereq: CFA TH 298; Each semester that a junior Design & Production BFA candidate is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Production. Meets late afternoons, evenings and/or weekends. Specific design and shop work in the mounting of student or professional productions. Does not include off-crew design work. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 398: Production
	Prereq: CFA TH397; Each semester that a junior Design & Production BFA candidate is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Production. Meets late afternoons, evenings and/or weekends. Specific design and shop work in the mounting of student or professional productions. Does not include off-crew design work. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 401: Dramaturgical Methods and Investigations: Excavating the Classics
	Prereq: At least one of the following: CFA TH 101, CFA TH 102, CFA TH 201, CFA TH 202 or consent of instructor; What is dramaturgy? How are its methods useful to theatre practitioners, regardless of specialization? Students in this course will learn the basics of best dramaturgical practice through investigations and excavations of classic plays, juxtaposed against current adaptations and reinterpretations. Instruction will focus on: the development of one's personal aesthetic; effective research and its presentation; dramaturgical writing and analysis; the creation of casebooks on specific plays; and devising pathways into the world of the play for one's collaborators. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 402: Contemporary Dramatic Literature
	Prereq: At least one of the following: CFA TH 101, CFA TH 102, CFA TH 201, CFA TH 202 or consent of instructor; This discussion course explores the most current trends in theatre from the United States and United Kingdom, with particular attention paid to the voices of African-American, Asian-American, Disabled, Feminist, Gay, and Lesbian playwrights, as well as to plays that break the standard molds of realism and naturalism. Beginning with 1990's Angels in America and moving forward to the present, the course pairs close reading and analysis with other dramaturgical methods in order to provide students with intellectual depth and practical skill for the professional theatre. Attendance of selected performances at B.U. and in Boston-at-large is required. 3.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 403: Advanced Playwriting
	Prereq: CFA TH 303 or consent of instructor; Students will learn the art of developing an early stage first draft into a production ready final rehearsal draft. Run like an intensive development workshop, this is where the most intensive, and arguably, most satisfying work will begin. Students learn the nuts and bolts of massaging a play: fleshing out characters, streamlining action, refining dialogue and finessing structure. Playwrights will also learn about the expectations and strategies for productive collaborative in-process relationships with actors, directors and dramaturges. This class is required for writers intending to produce original works for BFA Thesis. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 408: Contemporary Theatre Practice
	An introductory forum for theatre students of varying disciplines examining the performance work, methodology, and techniques of contemporary theatre artists, theatre groups, and performance artists. Expands the students' awareness and knowledge of theatre practice internationally. Encourages the investigation of diverse approaches to work in the theatre in our contemporary world. Extensive research and reading. This class is taught as a seminar. 2.0 credits. 		

CFA TH 411: Voice & Speech 4: Thesis Development
	Prereq: TH 311; Continuation in development of vocal instrument, workshops in special topics and individual coaching in support of actor's performance in productions. 2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 412: Voice & Speech 4: Thesis Application
	Prereq: CFA TH411; Continuation in development vocal instrument, workshops in special topics and individual coaching in support of actor's performance in productions. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 421: Acting 4: Thesis Development
	Prereq: CFA TH 321; Experience in the application of techniques to define and fulfill the actor's work in terms of form and content as required by the play and its performance. 2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 422: Acting 4: Professional Lifetime Skills
	Prereq: CFA TH421; For Senior Acting Majors or by instructor's permission. Focus on synthesizing the actor's training into the practical and artistic tools necessary to work creatively and collaboratively in the profession. Includes deepening and integrating skills in auditions, readings, and rehearsal process, as well as panel discussions on the business of theatre. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 423: Advanced Physical Approach to
	Prereq: TH 323; For students who have already participated in advanced physical work previously, this course provides an opportunity for each actor to deepen his/her work through continued exploration of psycho-physical connections. Rigorous physical training, object exploration, vocal proposal experimentation, creation and execution of physical action scores. Application to text and character work and the making of a montage in collaboration with fellow actors. 3 credits. 		

CFA TH 425: Acting: Shakespeare
	Prereq: Consent of instructor; Begins with personalization of the text, learning how to speak from one's own life experience. Explores connection between breath and thought/feeling. Then moves on to intellectual and technical demands, treating text more analytically, focusing on comprehension, inflection, dynamics and rhythm. Text will include sonnets, monologues and scenes. 2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 426: Classical Techniques in Contemporary Acting
	Prereq: Consent of instructor; In this course, considerable time will be spent investigating how classical training can enhance the embodiment of contemporary text. We will use acting techniques perhaps more commonly associated with classical work to explore contemporary plays that contain either heightened language or elevated ideas, or both. We may sample historical texts from time to time, as they prove useful in the approach to contemporary material. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 427: Theatre Ensemble 4: Thesis Development
	Prereq: CFA TH 227 or CFA TH 228 or CFA TH 327; This course serves as the culminating experience for senior Theatre Arts majors. The course involves the process of selecting a thesis project, choosing partners with whom to collaborate, then coming together as an ensemble to determine the process for producing the projects in the spring semester. Topics include developing a company mission, goals and priorities, as well as fundraising and marketing. Part one of a two semester-long course. Required all senior BFA Theatre Arts majors. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 428: Senior Thesis: Theatre Arts
	Prereq: CFA TH 427, plus prior academic experience in directing, choreography, or playwriting depending on the individual focus of a student's thesis project participation. Students form a company to present a festival of plays at the end of the semester. Thesis work can focus on playwriting, producing, directing, dramaturgy, or performance and project collaboration is strongly encouraged. 3.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 429: Understanding the Camera
	Prereq: SOT Only (majors and minors), senior standing or permission from instructor. This course is designed to provide students an acclimation to the artistic and professional transition of "on‐camera" work. Class work will focus on the development of on‐camera skills through performance practice and editing for presentation. Students will develop their own material individually and in groups. An introduction to basic film making (lighting, sound, editing), marking, scene takes and script analysis will help develop an understanding of how to create more dynamic and complete characters created specifically for the screen. In‐depth analysis of the current medium as it exists in all markets (film, television, and online) will be a constant element of the course. 2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 430: Film/Television Lab
	Fall Semester: In the first semester of this course students develop skills on how to prepare for professional work in Film and Television. Lectures and workshops will focus on the process of auditioning/casting for film and television and will help students to identify their potential for success in that medium (even in areas beyond acting). Various scenarios for meetings/auditions/screen tests will help to make students "industry-ready" and serve as a precursor to the post graduate "Acting in Hollywood" program 2.0 credits. Fall semester.   Spring Semester: In the second semester College of Fine Arts and College of Communication students work in collaboration to rehearse, develop and film material for presentation. The course emphasizes building stronger communication in the actor and director relationship especially as it relates to the artistic on camera storytelling process. The course meets weekly for both in class exercises, development of camera technique, as well as filmed scene presentation and critique. However, students should be prepared to commit additional hours outside of class for rehearsal and at times the filming of their scenes. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 431: Movement 4: Thesis Development
	Prereq: CFA TH 331; Explorations of physical theatre, choreography, and movement styles for non-verbal requirement of BFA Acting thesis.		

CFA TH 432: Movement 4: Commedia dell'Arte
	Prereq: Permission of instructor; Commedia dell'Arte: Introduction to the 16th and 17th century form of Italian street theatre based on improvised scenarios. Actors explore the stock characters of the old men, lovers, servants, and warriors, and learn techniques for mask transformations and physical comedy. 1.0 credit 		

CFA TH 437: Alexander Technique 4: The Actor's Consciousness
	Prereq: CFA TH 337; In-depth study of Carl Stough's breathing coordination principles. Continue to develop skills to understand what is the actor's consciousness and what is character's consciousness. Private coaching and hands on scene work to attain high-level performance techniques. 1.0 credit. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 438: Alexander Technique 4: Thesis Application
	Prereq: CFA TH437 or consent of instructor; Team taught with Judy Braha. Coaching for a scene with an Alexander teacher and an Acting teacher together helps the students to attain high-level performance techniques. 1.0  credit. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 440: Experiencing London Theatre in the Postwar World
	The objective of this course will be to relate the experience of the internship to the overall picture of contemporary British theatre in London. To understand a broad range of the major developments in British drama over the past 70 years and to relate drama to broad changes in British society. In addition the class will examine the work of specific writers and directors in detail and stimulate critical analysis through written work and discussion, as well as understanding the role of the Arts council and state subsidy of the performing arts. The ultimate aim is to demonstrate an awareness of British theatre, and an insight into how it is organized and why it has developed in its present form. 4.0 credits. Course offered through Boston University London Internship Program.		

CFA TH 441: Undergraduate Directing Colloquium 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 341; Projects with undergraduate theatre majors in plays of various lengths. Focus is on preparation for rehearsal and on rehearsal process. 2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 442: Undergraduate Directing Colloquium 3
	Prereq: CFA TH441 or permission of instructor, concurrent registration with CFA DR428; Projects with undergraduate theatre majors in plays of various lengths. Focus is on preparation for rehearsal and on rehearsal process. 2.0 credits		

CFA TH 443: Exp London Thea
			

CFA TH 447: Rehearsal & Performance 3
	Rehearsal/Performance & Production assignment work for participation in the School of Theatre Quarter 1 and Quarter 2 productions. Faculty assignment is based on faculty advising on a given production, all students should first register for the "X1-Staff" section at 1.0 credit per quarter of casting. After the student has been cast, they will be re-sectioned to the appropriate faculty advisor in charge of grading for that project. Course for SOT population only. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 448: Rehearsal & Performance 4
	Rehearsal/Performance & Production assignment work for participation in the School of Theatre Quarter 3 and Quarter 4 productions. Faculty assignment is based on faculty advising on a given production, all students should first register for the "X1-Staff" section at 1.0 credit per quarter of casting. After the student has been cast, they will be re-sectioned to the appropriate faculty advisor in charge of grading for that project. Course for SOT population only. Variable credits. Spring semester.  		

CFA TH 450: Senior Thesis: Acting
	Prereq: CFA TH 421; This course serves as the culminating experience for Senior BFA Acting majors. Involves the mounting of Acting thesis projects that been developed during the fall semester, including their rehearsal, production, and performance. Thesis projects must include specific categories of materials and will be presented in collaboration with the rest of their ensemble. Part two of a two semester-long course. Required course for all senior Acting majors. 2.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 451: D&P Senior Thesis
	Prereq: Senior status; Meets as arranged. A major independent project presented to the faculty and student body as the final requirement for the BFA degree. The project is chosen with approval of the advisor and presented on a schedule established by the School of Theatre. The project is given public exhibition or performance. 3.0 credits.  Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 452: D&P Senior Thesis
	Prereq: Senior status;  Meets as arranged. A major independent project presented to the faculty and student body as the final requirement for the BFA degree. The project is chosen with approval of the advisor and presented on a schedule established by the School of Theatre. The project is given public exhibition or performance. 3.0 credits.  Spring semester.		

CFA TH 453: Master Class: Undergrad
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; A laboratory/workshop class which created the opportunities to explore individual and collaborative ideas and problem solving in the creation of theatre. Emphasis is placed on the student's personal discovery of their own unique approach to their work and their involvement in the larger community of theatre artists. 2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 454: Master Class: Undergrad
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; A laboratory/workshop class which created the opportunities to explore individual and collaborative ideas and problem solving in the creation of theatre. Emphasis is placed on the student's personal discovery of their own unique approach to their work and their involvement in the larger community of theatre artists. 2.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 455: History of Period Styles 3
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; A survey covering the history of social, political and cultural movements and the expressions of those movements through architecture, interior decoration, furniture and dress in major civilizations. Work involves research projects and presentations.  2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 456: History of Period Styles 4
	Prereq: CFA TH 455 or consent of instructor; A continuation of CFA TH 455. A survey covering the history of social, political and cultural movements and the expressions of those movements through architecture, interior decoration, furniture and dress in major civilizations. Work involves research projects and presentations. 2.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 463: Scene Design 5
	Prereq: CFA TH 364; Advanced design projects developed in conjunction with other designers and directors; emphasis on complex mechanical solutions.  Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance and opera.  3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 464: Scene Design 6
	Prereq: CFA TH 463; Advanced design projects developed in conjunction with other designers and directors; emphasis on complex mechanical solutions.  Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance and opera.  3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 469: Technical Production 5
	Prereq: CFA TH 370; Large scale project planning and drafting using abstract objects and producing them as scenery both on paper and in the shop.  3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 470: Tech Production 6
	Prereq: CFA DR661 or CFA TH469 or consent of instructor. Large scale project planning and drafting, using abstract objects and producing them as scenery both on paper and in the shop. The class also addresses problem solving for scenery on raked stages and complete design for a modular full-stage rake that can be struck, stored, and installed easily. Spring semester. 3 credits. 		

CFA TH 475: Costume Design 5
	Prereq: CFA TH 376; Advanced theoretical and practical design training; project work weighted toward individual student's needs and realistic preparation for a career in costume design.  Readings and projects incorporate multiple theatre genres, ballet, dance and opera depending on individuals in the class.  3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 476: Costume Design 6
	Prereq: CFA TH 475; A continuation of CFA TH 475. Advanced theoretical and practical design training; project work weighted toward individual student's needs and realistic preparation for a career in costume design.  Readings and projects incorporate multiple theatre genres, ballet, dance and opera depending on individuals in the class.  3.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 479: Costume Production 5
	Prereq: CFA TH 380; Continues the study of flat patterning and draping through individual projects. Silhouette, line, and proportion become essential elements in the development of complete muslin reproductions.  The study of the form and function of period underpinnings is stressed.  3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 480: Costume Production 6
	Prereq: CFA TH 479; Continues the study of flat patterning and draping through individual projects. Silhouette, line, and proportion become essential elements in the development of complete muslin reproductions.  The study of the form and function of period underpinnings is stressed.  3.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 481: Millinery 1
	Millinery crafts are learned through various projects on different styles of design. Skills might include: straw, buckram, wire, paper and felt. Materials and tools list will be provided.  1 cr. Tuition: $TBD/credit		

CFA TH 482: Millinery 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 182 or consent of instructor; Millinery crafts are learned through various projects on different styles of design. Skills might include:  straw, buckram, wire, paper and felt. Offered in odd numbered AY. 1.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 483: Lighting Design 5
	Prereq: CFA TH 384; An in-depth look at the functions and qualities of light and how to apply them in complex ways within the lighting design for stage.  Focus will be placed on your continuing development as a theatre artist and on expanding your knowledge of lighting design. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 484: Lighting Design 6
	Prereq: CFA TH 483. An in-depth look at the functions and qualities of light and how to apply them in complex ways within the lighting design for stage.  Focus will be placed on your continuing development as a theatre artist and on expanding your knowledge of lighting design. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.  		

CFA TH 485: Choreography and Design: Experiments in Light and Movement
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; A course intended for lighting designers, actors, directors and dancers to develop theatrical work integrating light and movement. The goal of the course is to provide a workshop environment that fosters the development of new forms of theatrical expression involving light and movement.  Weekly assignments involve light sources, movement and light, conventions involving space, time, flow and hue; improvisations; and experimentation with theatrical ideas, character development and storytelling involving light and movement.  Rehearsal times on Sundays and Monday evenings expected outside of regular class times.  2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 494: SM: prepping to Freelance
	Prereq: CFA TH194 or consent on instructor. Meets periodically as a group in the spring semester. Discussion of freelancing, job searching, networking, and how to support a professional career. Examination of theatres and job possibilities as well as the continuation of personal communication and team leadership styles. Individual research projects based on students' areas of interest in the professional market. Spring semester. 1 credit.  		

CFA TH 497: Production
	Prereq: CFA TH 398; Each semester that a senior Design & Production BFA candidate is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Production.  Meets late afternoons, evenings and/or weekends.  Specific design and shop work in the mounting of student or professional productions. Does not include off-crew design work. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 498: Production
	Prereq: CFA TH 398; Each semester that a senior Design & Production BFA candidate is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Production.  Meets late afternoons, evenings and/or weekends.  Specific design and shop work in the mounting of student or professional productions. Does not include off-crew design work. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 500: Topics in Contemporary Dramatic Literature
	American Family Plays. A striking number of the most-acclaimed plays of the American theatre are plays about families, among them works by O'Neill, Odets, Hellman, Kaufman and Hart, Wilder, Williams, Miller, Hansberry, Albee, Shepard, Guare, A. Wilson, Kushner, Vogel, and Letts.  Students will read and discuss these plays.  Requires two papers and three brief (5-10 minute) oral presentations (one each on an author's life, an author's works, and the critical reception of a play).  4 cr. Tuition: $TBD/credit		

CFA TH 501: Directed Study: Dramatic Literature
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in dramatic literature. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 502: Directed Study: Dramatic Literature
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in dramatic literature. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 503: BU in LA: Writing for Film/Television
	This course is geared towards writers who want to write for film and television but may not have extensive experience or training in those disciplines. It will emphasize re-enforcement of film fundamentals, developing professional samples, and workshopping of material. Students will attend guest-speaker lectures and will have the opportunity to pitch to one or more industry professionals at the end of the course. 4.0 credits. Course offered through Boston University in Los Angeles "Writer in Hollywood" program.		

CFA TH 504: Adv Playwriting
			

CFA TH 505: Drama Criticism 1
	Prereq: CFA TH 101, CFA TH 102, CFA TH 201, and CFA TH 202 or consent of instructor; Workshop in critical discussion and writing. The course offers readings in theory, practice, and history of criticism from Plato to Zola. Emphasis on problems of judgment, acute observation, and methods of analysis. 2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 506: Drama Criticism 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 505 or consent of instructor; An investigation of the literary theories and dramatic criticism of the twentieth century. The course is designed as an extension of the work of Dramatic Criticism 1, which is a prerequisite. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 508: Contemporary British Theatre
	Provides students with access to contemporary British theater and the critical tools to understand and enjoy theater from the perspectives of the playbooks and the productions themselves. This course surveys and offers explanation of the major developments that have taken place in British theater since 1956. Coursework focuses on students' theater visits, which occur once every week and include both mainstream and fringe theater productions. The plays are discussed prior to attendance, and students are expected to provide a critique of the works they have seen. 4.0 credits. Course offered through Boston University London Internship Program.		

CFA TH 510: African American Drama
	A study of African American and Afro-Caribbean dramatic literature. Focus on the work of August Wilson, Lorraine Hansberry, AimÃ© CÃ©saire, and Derek Walcott in the context of Western drama. Also offered as CAS AA 510 and CAS EN 588.		

CFA TH 511: Directed Study: Voice and Speech
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in voice and speech. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 512: Directed Study: Voice & Speech
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in voice and speech. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 515: Directed Study: Singing
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in singing. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 516: Directed Study: Singing
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in singing. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 520: BU in LA: Acting in Hollywood
	The course is designed to be an intensive and practical introduction to the world of being an actor in Hollywood, enabling students to learn many of the things and gain the confidence necessary to navigate the complexities of pursuing acting careers in Film and Television. Ongoing evaluation and discussion of the individual actor's 'self-image' and 'self-marketing' (how each person can best present themselves to agents, casting directors, etc.) and acting for the camera, along with weekly focus on other topics of particular interest will form the basis of the class. As part of this class, guest speakers will participate from time to time as coaches and/or to give their take on the business. In addition, students will attend some evening sessions with the COM-track students when guests or topics of particular interest are featured. 4.0 credits. Course offered through Boston University in Los Angeles "Acting in Hollywood" program.		

CFA TH 521: Directed Study: Acting
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in acting. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 522: Directed Study: Acting
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in acting. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 523: Directed Study: Physical Acting
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in physical acting. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit.  Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 524: Directed Study: Physical Acting
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in physical acting. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 527: Directed Study: Theatre Ensemble
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in collaborative theatre making. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 528: Directed Study: Theatre Ensemble
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in collaborative theatre making. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 531: Directed Study: Movement
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in theatrical movement. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 532: Directed Study: Movement
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in theatrical movement. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 537: Directed Study: Alexander Technique
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in Alexander Technique. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 538: Directed Study: Alexander Technique
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in Alexander Technique. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 540: BU in LA: Internship in Hollywood
	The internship is one of the primary academic and professional pillars of the Los Angeles Certificate Program. Students are introduced to industry environments in their respective fields at sites where they will see the work of industry professionals and participate "in the business." Students are required to intern for a minimum of 20 hours per week, however, they are expected to intern at two companies for up to 40 hours per week. Progress is monitored through student journal entries and a final paper in which students reflect on their education and experience over the semester. 4.0 credits. Course offered through Boston University in Los Angeles "Acting in Hollywood" program.		

CFA TH 541: Internship: Performance
	Prereq: Approval of instructor; Students may arrange credit for off-campus, unpaid internships with established, professional arts organizations. Before applying for internship credit the student should check with their BFA Program Head as well as the faculty advisor for Internship: Performance to determine whether the proposed host organization and internship position qualifies. A minimum of 40 hours of work is expected per unit of credit, and credit is ordinarily capped at 4.0 credits per internship. All off-campus internships are graded Pass/Fail. May be repeated for credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 542: Internship: Performance
	Prereq: Approval of instructor; Students may arrange credit for off-campus, unpaid internships with established, professional arts organizations. Before applying for internship credit the student should check with their BFA Program Head as well as the faculty advisor for Internship: Performance to determine whether the proposed host organization and internship position qualifies. A minimum of 40 hours of work is expected per unit of credit, and credit is ordinarily capped at 4.0 credits per internship. All off-campus internships are graded Pass/Fail. May be repeated for credit. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 543: Internship: London Theatre
	The London internship is an academic course. In addition to performing a role in a British organization related to London theatre scene, students must meet a number of academic requirements so as to successfully complete the internship. During the internship, students have to attend three mandatory tutorial meeting and produce academic work which will account for their final grade. 4.0 credits. Course offered through Boston University London Internship Program.		

CFA TH 544: Internship: London Theatre
	The London internship is an academic course. In addition to performing a role in a British organization related to London theatre scene, students must meet a number of academic requirements so as to successfully complete the internship. During the internship, students have to attend three mandatory tutorial meeting and produce academic work which will account for their final grade. 4.0 credits. Course offered through Boston University London Internship Program.		

CFA TH 545: Directed Study: Performance
	Provides opportunity for individual students to study in a specific field or gain practical experience under the direct supervision of a faculty instructor. Approval of the student's advisor and an established focus of study required prior to registration.  Students must fill out a "Directed Study Proposal Form" with their DS advisor's approval after registration. Credit amount varies, each semester. May be repeated for credit. Variable credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 546: Directed Study: Performance
	Provides opportunity for individual students to study in a specific field or gain practical experience under the direct supervision of a faculty instructor. Approval of the student's advisor and an established focus of study required prior to registration.  Students must fill out a "Directed Study Proposal Form" with their DS advisor's approval after registration. Credit amount varies, each semester. May be repeated for credit. Variable credit. Spring semester		

CFA TH 547: Independent Study
	Provides opportunity for individual students to study in a specific field or gain practical experience in theatrical production or academic investigations of a more independent nature rather than through direct faculty instruction. Approval of the student's advisor and an established focus of study required prior to registration.  Students must fill out a "Directed Study Proposal Form" with their DS advisor's approval after registration. Credit amount varies, each semester. May be repeated for credit. Variable credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 548: Independent Study: Performance
	Provides opportunity for individual students to study in a specific field or gain practical experience in theatrical production or academic investigations of a more independent nature rather than through direct faculty instruction. Approval of the student's advisor and an established focus of study required prior to registration.  Students must fill out a "Directed Study Proposal Form" with their DS advisor's approval after registration. Credit amount varies, each semester. May be repeated for credit. Variable credit. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 553: Colloquium
	Prereq: None; For D&P majors. Meets as arranged. Weekly meeting of all students by major, with their advisor, to discuss past, current and future production needs. May be repeated for credit. 1.0 credit.  Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 554: Colloquium
	Prereq: None; For D&P majors. Meets as arranged. Weekly meeting of all students by major, with their advisor, to discuss past, current and future production needs. May be repeated for credit. 1.0 credit.  Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 555: History of Theatre 1
	Survey of Western theatrical practices, exploring the catalysts of the evolution of theatrical production from Greeks to 19th century. Historical readings, group assignments and PowerPoint presentations are part of the course requirements. 3 cr. Tuition: $TBD/credit		

CFA TH 556: History of Theatre 2
	Prereq: None; Survey of Western theatrical practices; exploring the catalysts of the evolution of theatrical production from 19thcentury through Modernity. Historical readings, group assignments and PowerPoint presentations part of course requirements. 3.0 credits.  Spring semester.		

CFA TH 559: Scene Design Studio Lab
	Prereq: Instructor Consent and registration in Scene Design course; Work centers around projects that directly relate to work being done in the Scene Design Courses. 1.0 credit.  Fall semester.		

CFA TH 560: Scene Design Studio Lab
	Prereq: Instructor Consent and registration in Scene Design course; Work centers around projects that directly relate to work being done in the Scene Design Courses. 1.0 credit.  Spring semester.		

CFA TH 562: Drafting Studio 2
	This course description is currently under construction		

CFA TH 563: Drawing for Designers 1
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Second level of drawing with focus on rendering architecture and decorative elements along with exploring drawing styles 1.0 credit.  Fall semester.		

CFA TH 564: Drawing for Designers 2
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Second level of drawing with focus on rendering architecture and decorative elements along with exploring drawing styles 1.0 credit. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 565: Painting Master Class
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Independent studies in advanced scenic painting techniques.  Assignments based on individual skills and interest.  1.0 credit.  Fall semester.		

CFA TH 566: Painting Master Class
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Independent studies in advanced scenic painting techniques.  Assignments based on individual skills and interest.  1.0 credit.  Spring semester.		

CFA TH 584: Opera Design: History & Process
	A colloquium discussion with faculty and students of the School of Theatre and the Opera Institute, and staff members of Boston Lyric Opera. Spring Semester. 2 credits. 		

CFA TH 586: Color Interaction
	Spring semester. 2 credits. 		

CFA TH 591: D&P Internship
	Prereq: Approval of advisor and SOT Director; Meets as arranged. Work as an intern in a professional setting.  Positions may be sought by the individual or suggested by advisor.  Internship Proposal Form required prior to approval.  The accepting organization must provide a letter of agreement prior to approval.  An evaluation letter following conclusion of the internship is required.  Personal journal or statement is also required.  Variable credit.  Fall semester.		

CFA TH 592: D&P Internship
	Prereq: Approval of advisor and SOT Director; Meets as arranged. Work as an intern in a professional setting.  Positions may be sought by the individual or suggested by advisor.  Internship Proposal Form required prior to approval.  The accepting organization must provide a letter of agreement prior to approval.  An evaluation letter following conclusion of the internship is required.  Personal journal or statement is also required.  Variable credit. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 594: Theatre Management
	The enormous growth of the regional theatre movement since 1960 has changed American theatre. Course will review the organizational structure and management practice of institutional theatre and the commercial theatre, including issues of governance, the balance between artistic and financial priorities and overviews of fundraising, marketing, contract negotiation, labor relations, and finance. Spring semester. 2 credits. 		

CFA TH 595: D&P Directed Study
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Meets as arranged. Opportunity for the student to engage in concentrated research and/or personal development in specialized area. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credit.  Fall semester.		

CFA TH 596: D&P Directed Study
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Meets as arranged. Opportunity for the student to engage in concentrated research and/or personal development in specialized area. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credit.  Spring semester.		

CFA TH 597: D&P Independent Study
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Meets as arranged. Provides opportunity for the individual student to study in a specific field or gain practical experience in a specific area or theatrical production. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credit.  Fall semester.		

CFA TH 598: D&P Independent Study
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Meets as arranged. Provides opportunity for the individual student to study in a specific field or gain practical experience in a specific area or theatrical production. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credit.  Spring semester.		

CFA TH 601: Directed Study: Dramaturgy
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in dramaturgy. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 602: Directed Study: Advanced Dramatic Literature
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in dramaturgy. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 603: Directed Study: Playwriting
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in playwriting. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 604: Directed Study: Playwriting
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in playwriting. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 605: Directed Study: Drama Criticism
	Directed Study: Drama Criticism		

CFA TH 606: Directed Study: Drama Criticism
	Directed Study: Drama Criticism		

CFA TH 615: Directed Study: Musical Theatre Lab
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in musical theatre. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 616: Directed Study: Musical Theatre Lab
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in musical theatre. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 621: Directed Study: Classical Acting
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in classical acting. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 622: Directed Study: Classical Acting
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in classical acting. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 623: Directed Study: Scene Study
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Collaboration between MFA Directing and BFA Performance students. Exploration of compact projects for in-class presentation (scenes or condensed interpretations of full plays) with feedback from faculty. At times MFA Design students are introduced to the process. Rehearsal hours outside of the presentation meeting time required for participation. Variable credits. Fall semester.  		

CFA TH 624: Directed Study: Scene Study
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Collaboration between MFA Directing and BFA Performance students. Exploration of compact projects for in-class presentation (scenes or condensed interpretations of full plays) with feedback from faculty. At times MFA Design students are introduced to the process. Rehearsal hours outside of the presentation meeting time required for participation. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 627: Directed Study: Theatre Education
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in theatre education. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.  		

CFA TH 628: Directed Study: Theatre Education
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in theatre education. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 631: Directed Study: Stage Combat
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in theatrical combat. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 632: Directed Study: Stage Combat
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in theatrical combat. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 641: Directed Study: Directing
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in theatrical directing. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 642: Directed Study: Directing
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in theatre directing. A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 645: Directed Study: Arts Administration
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in arts administration (generally in concert with MET Arts Administration department). A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 646: Directed Study: Arts Administration
	Prereq: Instructor Consent with approval from advisor and SOT Director; Special faculty directed study in arts administration (generally in concert with MET Arts Administration department). A statement thoroughly describing the project must be approved by the instructor, advisor and SOT Director prior to registration. May be repeated for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 647: Graduate Rehearsal & Performance
	Rehearsal/Performance & Production assignment work for graduate students who participate in the School of Theatre Quarter 1 and Quarter 2 productions. Faculty assignment is based on program advising for the student, all students should register for 1.0 credit per quarter of casting. Course for SOT population only. May be repeatable for credit. Variable credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 648: Graduate Rehearsal & Performance
	Rehearsal/Performance & Production assignment work for graduate students who participate in the School of Theatre Quarter 1 and Quarter 2 productions. Faculty assignment is based on program advising for the student, all students should register for 1.0 credit per quarter of casting. Course for SOT population only. May be repeatable for credit. Variable credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 651: Introduction to Design
	Prereq: Grad standing or consent of instructor; Meets with TH151. Meets 1 day/week for 2 hours/day. An introduction to the principles of 2D design through graphic studio exercises involving use of varied media in black and white. (Spring semester works with color). Does not presuppose any artistic skills. Permission required.  Fall only; 2.0 credit. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 652: Introduction to Design 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 651; Meets with CFA TH 152. Meets 1 day/week for 2 hours/day. An introduction to the principles of 2D design through graphic studio exercises involving use of varied media. Work is based on fall semester work in black and white, adding color. Spring only; 2.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 653: Master Class: Undergrad
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; Meets with CFA TH 453. A laboratory/workshop class which created the opportunities to explore individual and collaborative ideas and problem solving in the creation of theatre. Emphasis is placed on the student's personal discovery of their own unique approach to their work and their involvement in the larger community of theatre artists. 2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 654: Master Class: Undergrad
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; Meets with CFA TH 453. A laboratory/workshop class which created the opportunities to explore individual and collaborative ideas and problem solving in the creation of theatre. Emphasis is placed on the student's personal discovery of their own unique approach to their work and their involvement in the larger community of theatre artists. 2.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 655: History of Costume 1
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; Meets with CFA TH 255. An intensive survey covering the history of significant cultural expression in dress of Western Civilization. Work involves research projects with emphasis on color, materials, manufacture and application toward a definition of styles. 2.0 credits. Fall semester. Offered in even number AY only.		

CFA TH 656: History of Costume 2
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; Meets with CFA TH 256. An intensive survey covering the history of significant cultural expression in dress of Western Civilization. Work involves research projects with emphasis on color, materials, manufacture and application toward a definition of styles. 2.0 credits. Spring semester. Offered in even number AY only.		

CFA TH 660: AutoCad1
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; Meets with CFA TH 160. Introduction to Computer Aided Drafting program. Basic terminology, plate organization and technical drafting for Technical Production majors.  Requirement variable for Freshman BFA Design & Production and Performance Core. 1.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 662: Vectorworks 1
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; Meets with CFA TH 162. Introduction to Computer Aided Drafting program.   Basic terminology, plate organization and technical drafting for Lighting and Sound designers.  1.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 663: Scene Design Studio
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; Fundamentals of set design theory. Basic mechanical and conceptual solutions for the proscenium theatre: development of presentational and research skills. Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance and opera. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 664: Scene Design Studio 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 663 or consent of instructo; Fundamentals of set design theory; basic mechanical and conceptual solutions for the proscenium theatre: development of presentational and research skills. Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance and opera. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 665: Scene Painting 1
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Meets with CFA TH 165. Studio class. Exposure to materials and tools used in theatrical scene painting.  Exercises in general lay-in texture techniques and beginning work in nature studies. 2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 666: Scene Painting 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 665 or consent of instructor; Meets with CFA TH 166. Studio class. Exposure to materials and tools used in theatrical scene painting.  Exercises in general lay-in texture techniques and beginning work in nature studies. 2.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 667: Scene Painting Studio 1
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Studio class. Soft goods and problem solving with advanced scene painting techniques. 1.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 668: Scene Painting Studio 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 667 or consent of instructor; Studio class. Soft goods and problem solving with advanced scene painting techniques. 1.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 669: Technical Production Studio 1
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Large scale project planning and drafting, using abstract objects and producing them as scenery both on paper and in the shop.  The class also addresses problem solving for scenery on raked stages and complete design for a modular full-stage rake that can be struck, stored and installed easily. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 670: Technical Production Studio 2
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; A continuation of CFA TH 669. Large scale project planning and drafting, using abstract objects and producing them as scenery both on paper and in the shop.  The class also addresses problem solving for scenery on raked stages and complete design for a modular full-stage rake that can be struck, stored and installed easily. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 671: Theatrical Welding 1
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Meets with CFA TH 271. An introduction to welding technology explaining and outlining welding safety and the best welding practices for theatre. Course covers cutting, drilling and assembling mild steel for theatrical scenic construction. 2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 672: Theatrical Welding 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 671; A continuation of CFA TH 671. Meets with CFA TH 272. Advanced techniques in welding technology explaining and outlining welding safety and the best welding practices for theatre. Course covers cutting, drilling and assembling mild steel for theatrical scenic construction. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 675: Costume Design Studio 1
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Fundamentals of costume design. Exercises focus on analysis-designing from the inside out. Covers a range of visual, written, and verbal techniques of communication; script analysis, style, research techniques, and rendering skills. Readings and projects may incorporate all theatre genres. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 676: Costume Design Studio 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 675; A continuation of CFA TH 675. Fundamentals of costume design. Exercises focus on analysis-designing from the inside out. Covers a range of visual, written, and verbal techniques of communication; script analysis, style, research techniques, and rendering skills. Readings and projects may incorporate all theatre genres. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 677: Figure Drawing 1
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; Meets with CFA TH 177. Studio work in figure drawing.  Emphasis on drawing techniques and media through observation. May be repeated for credit. 1.0 credit. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 678: Figure Drawing 2
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; Meets with CFA TH 178. Studio work in figure drawing.  Emphasis on drawing techniques and media through observation. May be repeated for credit. 1.0 credit. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 679: Costume Production Studio 1
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; An in depth study of pattern making for the female silhouette. Draping and flat patterning techniques are augmented with historical research in pattern development. The student develops a thorough understanding of the form and function of each element of the female costume. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 680: Costume Production Studio 2
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; An in depth study of pattern making for the female silhouette. Draping and flat patterning techniques are augmented with historical research in pattern development. The student develops a thorough understanding of the form and function of each element of the female costume. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 681: Intro to Textiles 1
	Prereq: Advisor recommendation or consent of instructor; Meets with CFA TH 281. The course will cover identification and use of a variety of different fabrics including theatrical goods. It will include a brief history of textiles in conjunction with a focused overview of patterns, colors and fibers that developed and were used over a period of time as a result of growth within the industry. Scheduled trips to the Textile Museum in Lowell and the Museum of Fine Arts will support and enhance the student's experience with the subject. 1.0 credit. Fall semester. Offered every other odd numbered AY.		

CFA TH 682: Intro to Textiles 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 681; A continuation of CFA TH 681. Meets with CFA TH 282. The course will cover identification and use of a variety of different fabrics including theatrical goods. It will include a brief history of textiles in conjunction with a focused overview of patterns, colors and fibers that developed and were used over a period of time as a result of growth within the industry. Scheduled trips to the Textile Museum in Lowell and the Museum of Fine Arts will support and enhance the student's experience with the subject. 1.0 credit. Spring semester. Offered every other odd numbered AY.		

CFA TH 683: Lighting Design Studio 1
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; Introduction to the art and craft of lighting design for the stage. Explores the lighting design process, how to develop lighting ideas, concepts, and visual images from a text, and how to support those ideas to the point of realization. Required Labs will supplement class work with hands-on activities. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.  		

CFA TH 684: Lighting Design Studio 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 683; A continuation of TH683.  Introduction to the art and craft of lighting design for the stage. Explores the lighting design process, how to develop lighting ideas, concepts, and visual images from a text, and how to support those ideas to the point of realization. Required Labs will supplement class work with hands-on activities. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 685: Photography 1
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Meets with CFA TH 385. A general survey of the art and practices of photography.  Focus is especially strong in aspects of: history of artists and images, history of technology, photographic processes and basics of the camera and technology. 1.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 686: Photography 2
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Meets with CFA TH 386. A general survey of the art and practices of photography.  Focus is especially strong in aspects of: history of artists and images, history of technology, photographic processes and basics of the camera and technology. 1.0 credits. Spring semester.   		

CFA TH 687: Sound Design Studio 1
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; Meets with CFA TH 287. An overview of theatrical sound design, focusing on the process of creating a design. The emphasis is on sound cue creation, establishing mood, emotion and environment with sound, and critical listening. Covers the basics of the tools and technology used to implement a professional sound design. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 688: Sound Design Studio 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 687; A continuation of CFA TH 687. Meets with CFA TH 288. An overview of theatrical sound design, focusing on the process of creating a design. The emphasis is on sound cue creation, establishing mood, emotion and environment with sound, and critical listening. Covers the basics of the tools and technology used to implement a professional sound design. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 689: Production Audio 1
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; Meets with CFA TH 289 . Audio systems, video systems and intercom systems will be examined from input to output in terms of signal flow and interconnection practices and how they are used. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 690: Production Audio 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 689; A continuation of CFA TH689. Meets with CFATH 290. Audio systems, video systems and intercom systems will be examined from input to output in terms of signal flow and interconnection practices and how they are used. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 693: Stage Management Studio 1
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; Addresses common forms of stage management paperwork, computer skills, problem solving, union rules, familiarity with various theaters and forms of theater and beginnings of team management. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 694: Stage Management Studio 2
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; Addresses common forms of stage management paperwork, computer skills, problem solving, union rules, familiarity with various theaters and forms of theater and beginnings of team management. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 695: Production Management Studio 1
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; Roles and responsibilities of Production Managing on a professional level, including scheduling, staffing, budgeting, relationships and time management. Students will get hands-on experience in each of these through the creation of a theoretical theatre company. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 696: Production Management Studio 2
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; Roles and responsibilities of Production Managing on a professional level, including scheduling, staffing, budgeting, relationships and time management. Students will get hands-on experience in each of these through the creation of a theoretical theatre company. 3.0 credits.  Spring semester.		

CFA TH 697: Production
	Prereq: Graduate standing; Each semester that a 1st year graduate student in Design & Production is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Production.  Meets late afternoons, evenings and/or weekends.  Specific design and shop work in the mounting of student or professional productions. Does not include off-crew design work. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 698: Production
	Prereq: Graduate standing; Each semester that a 1st year graduate student in Design & Production is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Production.  Meets late afternoons, evenings and/or weekends.  Specific design and shop work in the mounting of student or professional productions. Does not include off-crew design work. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 734: Modern Tailor 2
			

CFA TH 755: History of Period Styles 1
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; Meets with CFA TH 355. Survey covering the history of and significant cultural expression through interior decoration and furniture in major civilizations. Work involves research projects with emphasis on historic fabrics and construction. 2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 756: History of Period Styles 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 755; A continuation of CFA TH 755. Meets with CFA TH 356. Survey covering the history of and significant cultural expression through interior decoration and furniture in major civilizations. Work involves research projects with emphasis on historic fabrics and construction. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.   		

CFA TH 757: History of Tailoring 1
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; This is a comprehensive course of historical classic nineteenth and twentieth century tailoring techniques, terminology and fabrics. Fall semester even numbered years. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 758: Hist of Tailr 2
			

CFA TH 759: AutoCAD 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 660 or consent of instructor; A continuation of AutoCAd 1 as a more advanced, in-depth study of AutoCad.  Goals will be based on improving the speed of drawing production and learning new tools to help fit the specific needs of the student's area of focus. 1.0 credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 761: Vectorworks 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 662 or consent of instructor; Advanced work in Vectorworks CAD; specific rendering techniques for the individual area of lighting and the light plot. 1.0 credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 762: Vectorworks 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 761 or consent of instructor; Advanced work in Vectorworks CAD; specific rendering techniques for the individual area of lighting and the light plot. 1.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 763: Scene Design Studio 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 664 or consent of instructor; Intermediate design solutions with an emphasis on conceptual approach; work in a variety of theatre spaces. Students work in collaboration with costume and lighting designers and directors. Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance, opera, television, and film. 3.0 credits.  Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 764: Scene Design Studio 4
	Prereq: CFA TH 763 or consent of instructor; Continuation of intermediate design solutions with an emphasis on conceptual approach; work in a variety of theatre spaces. Students work in collaboration with costume and lighting designers and directors. Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance and opera. 3.0 credits.  Spring semester.		

CFA TH 765: Scene Painting 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 666 or consent of instructor; Studio class. Painting specific architectural detail; projects include stain glass, perspective and trompe l'oeil techniques; special finishes for furniture and constructed projects. 2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 766: Scene Painting 4
	Prereq: CFA TH 765 or consent of instructor. Studio class. Continuation in painting specific architectural detail; projects include stain glass, perspective and trompe l'oeil techniques; special finishes for furniture and constructed projects. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 767: Scene Painting Studio 1
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Studio class. Soft goods and problem solving with advanced scene painting techniques. 1.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 768: Scene Painting Studio 2
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; Studio class. Soft goods and problem solving with advanced scene painting techniques. 1.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 769: Technical Production Studio 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 670 or consent of instructor; Large scale project planning and drafting, using abstract objects and producing them as scenery both on paper and in the shop.  The class also addresses problem solving for scenery on raked stages and complete design for a modular full-stage rake that can be struck, stored and installed easily. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.   		

CFA TH 770: Technical Production Studio 4
	Prereq: CFA TH 769 or consent of instructor. A continuation of CFA TH 769. Large scale project planning and drafting, using abstract objects and producing them as scenery both on paper and in the shop.  The class also addresses problem solving for scenery on raked stages and complete design for a modular full-stage rake that can be struck, stored and installed easily. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 771: Engineering for the Stage 1
	Prereq: CFA TH 670 or consent of instructor; An introduction to the classic engineering study of static and strength of materials, specifically with structures and materials typical to technical production of theater in mind. Students learn mathematical and resource methods for calculating structural performance parameters in individual structural members as they interact in a common structure. Discussion of common building practices provides knowledge critical to departing from standard practice. 1.0 credit. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 772: Engineering for the Stage 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 771 or consent of instructor; A continuation of CFA TH 771. An introduction to the classic engineering study of static and strength of materials, specifically with structures and materials typical to technical production of theater in mind. Students learn mathematical and resource methods for calculating structural performance parameters in individual structural members as they interact in a common structure. Discussion of common building practices provides knowledge critical to departing from standard practice. 1.0 credit. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 773: Modern Tailor 1
			

CFA TH 774: Modern Tailor 2
			

CFA TH 775: Costume Design Studio 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 676; For the intermediate design student. Geared toward practical application of design theory. Continued development of script analysis, style, research techniques and rendering skills. Exercises examine the principles of design as applied to historical costume.  Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance and opera depending on individuals in the class. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 776: Costume Design 4
	Prereq: CFA TH 775; Continuation of CFA TH 775. For the intermediate design student. Geared toward practical application of design theory. Continued development of script analysis, style, research techniques and rendering skills. Exercises examine the principles of design as applied to historical costume. Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance and opera depending on individuals in the class. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 777: Costume Figure Drawing 1
	Prereq: Advisor recommended or consent of instructor; Advanced work in figure drawing; specific rendering techniques or costume design. May be repeated for credit. 1.0 credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 778: Costume Figure Drawing 2
	Prereq: Advisor recommended or consent of instructor; Advanced work in figure drawing; specific rendering techniques or costume design. May be repeated for credit. 1.0 credit. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 779: Costume Production Studio 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 679; In this course the student will construct a three-piece men's suit of the nineteenth or twentieth century. It is a comprehensive course employing classic tailoring techniques, terminology and fabrics. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 780: Costume Production Studio 4
	Prereq: CFA TH 779; A continuation of CFA TH 779. In this course the student will construct a three-piece men's suit of the nineteenth or twentieth century. It is a comprehensive course employing classic tailoring techniques, terminology and fabrics. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 781: Fabric Dyeing 1
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; The student learns a variety of crafts associated with fabric painting and dyeing.  Subject matter may include fiber reactive dyeing, distressing and silk screening. Check with instructor for current semester content. 1.0 credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 782: Fabric Dyeing 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 781 or consent of instructor; The student learns a variety of crafts associated with fabric painting and dyeing.  Subject matter may include fiber reactive dyeing, distressing and silk screening. Check with instructor for current semester content. 1.0 credit. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 783: Lighting Design Studio 3
	Prereq: CFA TH 684 or consent of instructor; Investigation of lighting design problems and procedures.  Projects for both theoretical and realized productions.  Practical projects to demonstrate lighting design techniques.  Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 784: Lighting Design Studio 4
	Prereq: CFA TH 783 or consent of instructor; A continuation of CFA TH 783. Investigation of lighting design problems and procedures.  Projects for both theoretical and realized productions.  Practical projects to demonstrate lighting design techniques.  Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.   		

CFA TH 785: Choreography and Design: Experiments in Light and Movement
	Prereq: Graduate Standing or instructor permission; A course intended for lighting designers, actors, directors and dancers to develop theatrical work integrating light and movement. The goal of the course is to provide a workshop environment that fosters the development of new forms of theatrical expression involving light and movement.  Weekly assignments involve light sources, movement and light, conventions involving space, time, flow and hue; improvisations; and experimentation with theatrical ideas, character development and storytelling involving light and movement.  Rehearsal times on Sundays and Monday evenings expected outside of regular class times.  2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 786: Lghtng Crafts
			

CFA TH 789: Systems Design 1
	Prereq: Grad Standing or consent of instructor; Audio systems, video systems and intercom systems will be examined from input to output in terms of signal flow and interconnection practices and how they are used. Offered in odd numbered AY. 3.0 credits. Fall semester.   		

CFA TH 790: Systems Design 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 789 or consent of instructor; Audio systems, video systems and intercom systems will be examined from input to output in terms of signal flow and interconnection practices and how they are used. Offered in odd numbered AY. 3.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 795: Production Management Studio 1
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; Roles and responsibilities of Production Managing on a professional level, including scheduling, staffing, budgeting, relationships and time management. Students will get hands-on experience in each of these through the creation of a theoretical theatre company. 3.0 credits.  Fall semester.		

CFA TH 796: Production Management Studio 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 795 or consent of instructor; Roles and responsibilities of Production Managing on a professional level, including scheduling, staffing, budgeting, relationships and time management. Students will get hands-on experience in each of these through the creation of a theoretical theatre company. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 797: Production
	Prereq: Graduate standing; Each semester that a 2nd year graduate student in Design & Production is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Production.  Meets late afternoons, evenings and/or weekends.  Specific design and shop work in the mounting of student or professional productions. Does not include off-crew design work. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 798: Production
	Prereq: Graduate standing; Each semester that a 2nd year graduate student in Design & Production is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Production.  Meets late afternoons, evenings and/or weekends.  Specific design and shop work in the mounting of student or professional productions. Does not include off-crew design work. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 830: Theatre Education Colloquium
	Weekly meeting of graduate students in the MFA Theatre Education program to discuss the progress in their study and challenges faced either in studio or rehearsal/production. Topics vary from week to week, but include guest artist visits and special collaborative events with other MFA students. Each semester that an MFA Theatre Education candidate is in residence at SOT he/she is required to enroll in this course. Course repeatable for credit. Fall & Spring semesters.		

CFA TH 840: Graduate Directing Colloquium
	Weekly meeting of graduate students in the MFA Directing program to discuss the progress in their study and challenges faced either in studio or rehearsal/production. Topics vary from week to week, but include guest artist visits and special collaborative events with other MFA students. Each semester that an MFA Directing candidate is in residence at SOT he/she is required to enroll in this course. Course repeatable for credit. Fall & Spring semesters.		

CFA TH 841: Graduate Directing 1
	Prereq: Graduate standing; MFA Directing students in their first semester of rehearsal/production experience will assistant director on two projects either for the School of Theatre or one of its Professional Theatre Initiative affiliates. 2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 842: Graduate Directing 2
	Prereq: Graduate standing; MFA Directing students in their second semester of rehearsal/performance experience will direct two projects. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 843: Graduate Directing 3
	Prereq: Graduate standing; MFA Directing students in their third semester of rehearsal/performance experience will assistant direct one project and direct another. 2.0 credits. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 844: Graduate Directing 4
	Prereq: Graduate standing; MFA Directing students in their fourth semester of rehearsal/performance experience will direct two projects. In preparation for the culminating thesis project in the third year. 2.0 credits. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 855: History of Period Styles 3
	Prereq: Instructor Consent; A survey covering the history of social, political and cultural movements and the expressions of those movements through architecture, interior decoration, furniture and dress in major civilizations. Work involves research projects and presentations.  2.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 856: History of Period Styles 4
	Prereq: CFA TH 855 or consent of instructor; A continuation of CFA TH 855. A survey covering the history of social, political and cultural movements and the expressions of those movements through architecture, interior decoration, furniture and dress in major civilizations. Work involves research projects and presentations.  2.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 859: Photoshop 1
	Prereq: Graduate standing consent of instructor; A survey covering the history of social, political and cultural movements and the expressions of those movements through architecture, interior decoration, furniture and dress in major civilizations. Work involves research projects and presentations. 1.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 860: Photoshop 2
	Prereq: Graduate standing consent of instructor; A survey covering the history of social, political and cultural movements and the expressions of those movements through architecture, interior decoration, furniture and dress in major civilizations. Work involves research projects and presentations. 1.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 863: Scene Design Studio 5
	Prereq: CFA TH 764; Advanced design projects developed in conjunction with other designers and directors; emphasis on complex mechanical solutions.  Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance and opera. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 864: Scene Design Studio 6
	Prereq: CFA TH 863; Advanced design projects developed in conjunction with other designers and directors; emphasis on complex mechanical solutions.  Readings and projects incorporate all theatre genres, ballet, dance and opera. 3.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 869: Technical Production Studio 5
	Prereq: CFA TH 770; Large scale project planning and drafting using abstract objects and producing them as scenery both on paper and in the shop. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 870: Technical Production Studio 6
	Prereq: CFA TH 869; Large scale project planning and drafting using abstract objects and producing them as scenery both on paper and in the shop. 3.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 875: Costume Design Studio 5
	Prereq: CFA TH 776; Advanced theoretical and practical design training; project work weighted toward individual student's needs and realistic preparation for a career in costume design.  Readings and projects incorporate multiple theatre genres, ballet, dance and opera depending on individuals in the class. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 876: Costume Design Studio 6
	Prereq: CFA TH 875; A continuation of CFA TH 875. Advanced theoretical and practical design training; project work weighted toward individual student's needs and realistic preparation for a career in costume design.  Readings and projects incorporate multiple theatre genres, ballet, dance and opera depending on individuals in the class.  3.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 877: Costume Rendering 1
	Prereq: Advisor recommended or consent of instructor; Advanced work in figure drawing; specific rendering techniques or costume design. May be repeated for credit. 1.0 credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 878: Costume Rendering 2
	Prereq: Advisor recommended or consent of instructor; Advanced work in figure drawing; specific rendering techniques or costume design. May be repeated for credit. 1.0 credit. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 879: Costume Production Studio 5
	Prereq: CFA TH 780; Continues the study of flat patterning and draping through individual projects. Silhouette, line, and proportion become essential elements in the development of complete muslin reproductions.  The study of the form and function of period underpinnings is stressed. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 880: Costume Production Studio 6
	Prereq: CFA TH 879; Continues the study of flat patterning and draping through individual projects. Silhouette, line, and proportion become essential elements in the development of complete muslin reproductions.  The study of the form and function of period underpinnings is stressed. 3.0 credits. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 881: Millinery 1
	Prereq: Graduate standing or consent of instructor; Millinery crafts learned through various projects on different styles of design. Skills might include: straw, buckram, wire, paper and felt. Offered in odd numbered AY. 1.0 credit. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 882: Millinery 2
	Prereq: CFA TH 881 or consent of instructor Millinery crafts learned through various projects on different styles of design. Skills might include: straw, buckram, wire, paper and felt. Offered in odd numbered AY. 1.0 credit. Spring semester. 		

CFA TH 883: Lighting Design Studio 5
	Prereq: CFA TH 784; An in-depth look at the functions and qualities of light and how to apply them in complex ways within the lighting design for stage. Focus will be placed on your continuing development as a theatre artist and on expanding your knowledge of lighting design. 3.0 credits. Fall semester. 		

CFA TH 884: Lighting Design Studio 6
	Prereq: CFA TH 883; An in-depth look at the functions and qualities of light and how to apply them in complex ways within the lighting design for stage. Focus will be placed on your continuing development as a theatre artist and on expanding your knowledge of lighting design. 3.0 credits. Spring semester.  		

CFA TH 897: Production
	Prereq: Graduate standing; Each semester that a 3rd year graduate student in Design & Production is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Production. Meets late afternoons, evenings and/or weekends. Specific design and shop work in the mounting of student or professional productions. Does not include off-crew design work. Fall semester.		

CFA TH 898: Production
	Prereq: Graduate standing; Each semester that a 3rd year graduate student in Design & Production is in residence at SOT, he/she is required to enroll in an appropriate section of Production. Meets late afternoons, evenings and/or weekends. Specific design and shop work in the mounting of student or professional productions. Does not include off-crew design work. Spring semester.		

CFA TH 950: Graduate MFA Thesis
	Prereq: Graduate standing and approval of program advisor and reading committee. 3rd year graduate students who have completed the course work for their MFA must execute a culminating thesis project that requires one year to plan, revise and execute. All projects must have a 3 person reading committee and initial proposal must be approved by faculty prior to registering for Thesis. Variable credit. Fall & Spring semesters.		

