ENG BE 200: Introduction to Probability
           			An introductory course designed for sophomore engineering students that   introduces the fundamentals of probability and statistics without the use of   transforms. Coverage includes  descriptive statistics, basics of probability   theory, multiple random variables, expectation, Markov chains, and statistical   testing. Computer simulations of probabilistic systems are included. Examples   are taken from engineering systems. This course cannot be taken for credit in   addition to ENG EC 381. 2.0 cr		

ENG BE 209: Principles of Molecular Cell Biology and Biotechnology
           			Introduction to the molecular, physical and computational principles of cell   function in the context of cutting-edge applications in bioengineering and   medicine. Biological concepts include: molecular building blocks, energetics,   transport, metabolism, nucleic acids, gene expression and genetics. Applications   include bioenergy, synthetic biology, the human genome project, and gene circuit   engineering.  Labs will teach fundamental techniques of molecular biology   including a multi-week module where students build and quantify bacterial gene   expression system. Labs emphasize the experimental, problem solving, and   analytical skills required in modern engineering and research.  4.0 cr		

ENG BE 401: Signals and Systems in Biomedical Engineering
           			Signals and systems with an emphasis on application to biomedical problems.  Laplace transforms, Fourier series, Fourier integral, convolution and the  response of linear systems, frequency response, and Bode diagrams. Introduction  to communication systems, multiplexing, amplitude modulation, and sampling  theorem. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to ENG SC 401. 4 cr		

ENG BE 402: Control Systems in Biomedical Engineering
           			Mathematical analysis of dynamic and linear feedback control systems. Emphasis  on application to physiological systems, physiological transport,  pharmacokinetics, glucose/insulin control, and respiratory control. Performance  criteria. Root locus, Nyquist, and other stability criteria. State space  analysis with state variable feedback control. Design and compensation. Cannot  be taken for credit in addition to ENG EC402. 4 cr		

ENG BE 419: Principles of Continuum Mechanics and Transport
           			This is an introductory course that presents the subjects of solid mechanics,    fluid mechanics and transport phenomena in a unified form using the conservation    principles (laws of physics) and the mathematical framework of vectors, tensors    and matrices.  The basic concepts of strain, stress, conservation of mass,    momenta and energy, constitutive laws, and applications to solid mechanics,    fluid mechanics, diffusion processes and heat transfer will be presented.    Illustrative examples from engineering and applied sciences will be provided    with each topic.  The course will prepare students for advanced courses in    traditional fields (elasticity, fluid mechanics, viscoelasticity,    poroelasticity, rheology, transport phenomena) as well as emerging fields    (nanotechnology, biotechnology, computational mechanics). 4 cr 		

ENG BE 420: Introduction to Solid Biomechanics
           			Introductory course to mechanics of solid elastic continua. Basics of vector and  tensor algebra and calculus; kinematics of deformation, stress analysis,  constitutive equations, finite elasticity; linear elasticity; virtual work; the  Ritz approximation. In addition to the classical Hookean elasticity, finite  deformation theory is presented to describe mechanical behavior of biological  soft tissues and cells. Illustrative examples from tissue and cell biomechanics.  Design elements will be included in problems and examples. 4 cr		

ENG BE 428: Device Diagnostics and Design
           			This course is focused on the fundamentals of modern biomedical device and  diagnostics design. Students will design and build an alpha prototype in this  project based course. The course is aimed at undergraduates who have completed  most of the engineering core coursework (second semester sophomore and above).  Mechanical and Biomedical Engineering concepts are introduced and elaborated on  in the context of specific applications. Topics include: materials classes;  materials selection for medical devices and diagnostics; elementary mechanics of  materials topics in the context of design for manufacturing (stress, strain,  toughness, torsion, bending, buckling); fracture, fatigue and yielding; failure  analysis; biocompatibility; regulatory requirements as they pertain to design,  manufacturing and marketing; technology assessment strategies; and engineering  ethics. Several case studies of successful and unsuccessful biomedical device  design are introduced and discussed throughout the course. 4 cr		

ENG BE 435: Transport Phenomena in Living Systems
           			Biological systems operate at multiple length scales and all scales depend on   internal and external transport of molecules, ions, fluids and heat. this course   is designed to introduce the fundamentals of biological transport and to apply   these fundamentals in understanding physiological processes involving fluid,   mass and heat transfer. Students will learn the fundamental conservation   principles and constitutive laws that govern heat, mass and momentum transport   processes and systems as well as the constitutive properties that are   encountered in typical biological problems. Transport is also critical to the   development and proper functioning of biological and medical instruments and   devices, which will also be discussed. Biomedical examples will include   applications in development of the heart-lung machine, estimation of time of   death in postmortem cases, burn injuries through hot water, respiratory flow in   smokers lungs, etc. 4 cr		

ENG BE 436: Fundamentals of Fluid Mechanics
           			Conservation of mass, momentum, and energy in static and moving fluids.     Constitutive relations for Newtonian and non-Newtonian fluids.  Viscous flows,    with application to microfluidics, flow in porous materials, lubrication, and    other areas of biomedical interest.  Scaling analysis.  Inertial effects,    including boundary layers and unsteady flows.  Introduction to computational    fluid dynamics. 4 cr		

ENG BE 437: Nanometer Scale Processes in Living Systems
           			The world at the nanometer-scale is full of dynamic phenomena that are vastly  different than those encountered at the macro scale. Biological processes that  are of particular contemporary interest, such as cell differentiation, are  stimulated by the activity and interaction of biomolecules at the nanoscale.   Thus, an understanding of the physics and engineering in such systems is a vital  component toward overcoming an immense array of challenging problems in the  biological and medical sciences. This course will focus particularly on a  conceptual and mechanistic understanding of technologies that permit the study  of events at the nanometer scale, including scanning probe microscopes  (including SEM and AFM) and optical methods such as fluorescence microscopy and  related techniques (including single particle tracking, FRET, FCS). Finally, two  laboratory components in optical trap microscopy and microrheology will be the  cornerstone of the course. These two labs will each develop over the course of 5  weeks each, thus providing an experiential aspect to lab learning that will  require the willingness to take intellectual risks and teamwork. These "hands  on" laboratory modules will uniquely prepare students to face the open-ended,  teamwork-oriented problems. 4 cr		

ENG BE 451: Directed Study in Biomedical Engineering
	Individual study of a topic in biomedical engineering not covered in a regularly  scheduled course. A faculty member must agree to supervise the study before  registration. Term paper and/or written examination. Variable cr.		

ENG BE 465: Biomedical Engineering Senior Project
           			Selection of project and project supervisor must be approved by course  instructor. Project is in an area of biomedical engineering, such as biomedical  instrumentation, biosensors, tissue engineering, biological signal processing,  biological modeling and simulation, clinical imaging or informational systems,  etc.Projects will be conducted by teams of two or three students, and projects  must include significant design experience. Research of background, planning and  initial work on senior design project. Guidance in performing and presenting (in  written and oral form) a technical project proposal. Skills in proposal writing,  oral presentation techniques. Formal proposal must be approved by technical  advisor. 2 cr		

ENG BE 466: Biomedical Engineering Senior Project
           			Completion of project in an area of biomedical engineering. Expanded training in  technical project presentation techniques. Includes writing of progress reports,  abstracts, final reports. Course culminates with an oral presentation at annual  Senior Project Conference. Written final report must be approved by the faculty.  4 cr		

ENG BE 467: Product Design and Innovation in Biomedical Engineering
           			A combined academic and industry taught course educating students on project definition, and on the design, development, and technology transfer of potential biomedical products in the context of the student's major capstone project. Students will learn from faculty and industry lecturers the best practices for medical device development including: product development via design and process control, intellectual property and innovation in biomedical engineering including patents, and clinical regulatory issues including clinical trial design. School of Management faculty will emphasize marketing, technology transfer and entrepreneurship for bioengineering products. Case study examples will be provided. ENG BE 465 must be taken concurrently.  2 cr.		

ENG BE 491: Biomedical Measurements I
	Laboratory course designed to develop experimental and modeling skills.  Simulation of physical and physiological systems, experimental determination of  transfer functions, filtering properties of systems, transducer instrumentation,  muscle dynamics, and spectral analysis. Emphasis is on comparison of experimental  data with theoretical expectation. 2 cr		

ENG BE 492: Biomedical Measurements II
	Laboratory course designed to develop research skills including data acquisition  with instruments used in physiology and biology such as optical microscopes,  ultrasound transducers, as well as air pressure and flow transducers.  Emphasis  is on data acquisition, quantitative analysis, physiological interpretation and  written presentation in the form of professional quality reports. 2 cr		

ENG BE 500: Special Topics in Biomedical Engineering
		Coverage of a specific topic in biomedical engineering. One topic covered in  depth each semester offered. Subject matter varies from year to year. 4 cr		

ENG BE 503: Numerical Methods and Modeling in Biomedical Engineering
	This graduate course is an introduction to the computational tools most commonly  applied in biological and physiological research, with emphasis on the art of  using models, programming and simulation to reach useful conclusions and  insights. Specific topics include exact and iterative methods for the solution  of large systems, differentiation and interpolation numerical integration,  pseudorandomization, Monte Carlo methods and statistical bootstrap methods,  Fourier transform and spectral methods, and also finite difference methods for  the solution of ordinary and partial differential equations. Each weekly lecture  is accompanied by a computer lab in which the students will gain experience in  the use of the techniques under study. Interspersed with learning of methods  will be a variety of specific bioengineeering applications covering the range  from genes and molecules to cells, organs, and systems. 4 cr		

ENG BE 504: Polymers and Soft Materials
           			An introduction to soft matter for students with background in materials  science, chemistry and physics. This course covers general aspects of structure,  properties, and performance polymers, polymer solutions and gels. Emphasis is on  chain behavior, local chemical interactions and mechanical behavior across  multiple size scales. Topics include forces, energies, kinetics in material  synthesis, growth and transformation; methods for preparing synthetic materials;  formation assembly, phase behavior, and molecular ordering of synthetic soft  materials; structure, function, and phase transitions; multiscale models of  polymer mechanical behavior; techniques for characterizing the structure, phase  and dynamics of soft materials; application of soft materials in biotechnology  and nanotechnology. Meets with ENG ME 504 and ENG MS 504; students may not  receive credit for both. 4 cr		

ENG BE 505: Molecular Bioengineering I
           			Provides engineering perspectives on the building blocks of living cells and  materials for biotechnology. Focuses on origins and synthesis in life and the  laboratory, including biological pathways for sythesis of DNA, RNA and proteins;  transduction, transmission, storage and retrieval of biological informatin by  macromoleclues; polyerase chain reaction, restriction enzymes, DNA sequencing;  energetics of protein folding and trafficking; mechanisms of enzymatic catalysts  and receptor-ligand binding; cooperative proteins, multi-protein complexes and  control of metabolic pathways; generation, storage, transmission and release of  biomolecular energy; and methods for study and manipulation of molecules which  will include isolation, purification, detection, chemical characterization,  imaging and visualization of structure. 4 cr		

           			Introduction to the mammalian auditory system from a systems prospective. The  class follows how sound propagates into the ear, how mechanical energy is  transformed into a neural code, how that code is transformed through the  mammalian auditory pathway from the cochlea to the cortex, and how auditory  sensation and perception are related to this chain of neural processing. Anatomy  and physiology will cover the structure and function of the middle ear, cochlea,  brainstem, midbrain, thalamus, and cortex. Perceptual topics include basic  sensitivity, spatial hearing, pitch perception, auditory scene analysis,  attention, and speech perception. Implications for hearing impairment and  prosthetic hearing devices will be covered. Associated discussion sessions cover  recent research findings from general-interest, high-impact publications. 4 cr		

ENG BE 511: Biomedical Instrumentation
           			Physiological signals, origin of biopotentials (ECG, EMG, EEG), biomedical transducers and electrodes. Biomedical signal detection, amplifications and filtering. Analog front-ends of biomedical instruments. Electrical safety in medical environment. Laboratory experiments supplement lectures. 		

ENG BE 513: Biological and Environmental Acoustics
           			Application of acoustics to biological and environmental research.  Introduction to physical acoustics with examples from actual terrestrial and marine environments.  The use of sound by animals for communication and echolocation.  Application of acoustics to conservation biology.		

ENG BE 515: Introduction to Medical Imaging
           			Methods of obtaining useful images of the interior of the body using X-rays,  ultrasound, and radionuclides. Image formation and display. Projection  radiography. Radiation detectors. Conventional and computerized tomography.  Nuclear imaging. Automating diagnosis and non-invasive testing. Radiation safety.  4 cr  		

ENG BE 517: Optical Microscopy of Biological Materials
	In this course students will learn the practice and the underlying theory of  imaging with a focus on state-of-the-art live cell microscopy.  Students will  have the opportunity to use laser scanning confocal as well as widefield and  near-field imaging to address experimental questions related to ion fluxes in  cells, protein dynamics and association, and will use phase and interference  techniques to enhance the detection of low contrast biological material.   Exploration and discussion of detector technology, signals and signal  processing, spectral separation methods and physical mechanisms used to  determine protein associations and protein diffusion in cells are integrated  throughout the course. Students will be assigned weekly lab reports, a mid-term  and a final project consisting of a paper and an oral presentation on a current  research topic involving optical microscopy. 4 cr             		

ENG BE 519: Speech Signal Processing
           			Speech (naturally spoken) is the main mode of communication between humans.  Speech technology aims at providing the means for speech-controlled man-machine  interaction. The goal of this course is to provide the basic concepts and  theories of speech production, speech perception and speech signal processing.  The course is organized in a manner that builds a strong foundation of basics  first, and then concentrates on a range of signal processing methods for  representing and processing the speech signal. 4 cr		

ENG BE 521: Continuum Mechanics
           			The main goal of this course is to present a unified, mathematically rigorous  approach to two classical branches of mechanics:  the mechanics of fluids and  the mechanics of solids.  Topics will include kinematics, stress analysis,  balance laws (mass, momentum, and energy), the entropy inequality, and  constitutive equations in the framework of Cartesian vectors and tensors.   Emphasis will be placed on mechanical principles that apply to all materials by  using the unifying mathematical framework of Cartesian vectors and tensors.   Illustrative examples from biology and physiology will be used to describe basic  concepts in continuum mechanics.  The course will end at the point from which  specialized courses devoted to problems in fluid mechanics (e.g. biotransport)  and solid mechanics (e.g. cellular biomechanics) could logically proceed.  Same  as ENG ME 521; students may not receive credit for both. 4 cr    		

ENG BE 524: Skeletal Tissue Mechanics
           			The course is structured around classical topics in mechanics of materials and  their application to study of the mechanical behavior of skeletal tissues, whole  bones, bone-implant systems, and diarthroidal joints.  Topics include:   mechanical behavior of tissues, (anisotropy, viscoelasticity, fracture and  fatigue) with emphasis on the role of the microstructure of these tissues;  structural properties of whole bones and implants (composite and asymmetric bean  theories); and mechanical function of joints (contact mechanics, lubrication,  and wear).  Emphasis is placed on using experimental data to test and to develop  theoretical models, as well as on using the knowledge gained to address common  health related problems related to aging, disease, and injury.  Same as ENGME524  and ENGMS524. Students may not receive credit for both. 4 cr		

ENG BE 526: Fundamentals of Biomaterials
           			Provides the chemistry and engineering skills needed to solve challenges in the  biomaterials and tissue engineering area, concentrating on the fundamental  principles in biomedical engineering, material science, and chemistry.  Covers  the structure and properties of hard materials (ceramics and metals) and soft  materials (polymers, colloids, and hydrogels). Meets with BE726 lectures. Note  that the laboratory portion is not offered in BE 526.  4 cr		

ENG BE 527: Principles and Applications of Tissue Engineering
           			Provides the chemistry and engineering skills needed to solve challenges in the  biomaterials and tissue engineering area, concentrating on cell-biomaterial  interactions, biomaterial-host response, and inflammation. Covers the  rheological properties of polymers and gels as well as fatigue and fracture of  materials. Specific applications of tissue engineering. Meets with BE 727  lectures. Note that the laboratory portion is not offered in BE 527. 4 cr		

ENG BE 533: Biorheology
           			An introductory course emphasizing those rheological properties (such as  elasticity, viscoelasticity, poroelasticity, plasticity, and viscoplasticity)  that often characterize solid biological tissues and cells. 4 cr		

ENG BE 535: Cell Mechanics
           			Provides an introduction to the physical and chemical basis for the mechanical  properties and activities of living cells considered from an engineering  perspective. The instructional approach emphasizes in-depth study of a limited  number of cases and relies heavily on selected readings from the literature.  Topics studied include cell adhesion and elasticity of red cells as well as  phenomena in which active motility is involved (e.g., the first cleavage  division of the sea urchin egg, the contraction of skeletal muscle, the crawling  motility of fibroblastic cells, and the beating of flagella). Lectures and  assignments emphasize the role of quantitative theory and mathematical models in  elucidating the molecular basis of physiological observations in these diverse  areas. 4 cr. 		

ENG BE 549: Structure and Function of the Extracellular Matrix
	This is an introductory course dealing with the detailed structure of the basic    units of the extracellular matrix including collagen, elastin, microfibrils and    proteoglycans as well as the functional properties of these molecules. The focus    is mostly on how the structure of these components determine the functional    properties such as elasticity at different scales from molecule to fibrils to    organ level behavior. The biological role of these components and their    interaction with cells is also covered. Interaction of enzymes and the matrix in    the presence of mechanical forces is discussed. Mathematical modeling is applied    at various length scales of the extracellular matrix that provides quantitative    understanding of the structure and function relationship. Special topics include    how diseases affect extracellular matrix in the lung, cartilage and vasculature.    The relevance of the properties of native extracellular matrix for tissue    engineering is also discussed. Meets with MS 549 and ME 549. 4 cr. 		

ENG BE 560: Biomolecular Architecture
           			Provides an introduction to the molecular building blocks and the structure of  three major components of the living cells: the nucleic acids, the phospho- lipids membrane, and the proteins. The nucleic acids, DNA and RNA, linear  information storing structure as well as their three-dimensional structure are  covered in relationship to their function. This includes an introduction to  information and coding theory. The analysis tools used in pattern identification  representation and functional association are introduced and used to discuss the  patterns characteristic of DNA and protein structure and biochemical function.  The problems and current approaches to predicting protein structure including  those using homology, energy minimization, and modeling are introduced. The  future implications of our expanding biomolecular knowledge and of rational drug  design are also discussed. 4 cr		

ENG BE 562: Computational Biology: Genomes, Networks, Evolution
           			The algorithmic and machine learning foundations of computational biology,  combining theory with practice are covered. Principles of algorithm design and  core methods in computational biology, and an introduction of important problems  in computational biology. Hands on experience analyzing large-scale biological  data sets. 4 cr		

ENG BE 564: Biophysics of Large Molecules
           			The course considers the fundamental concepts of physical and mathematical  description of polyatomic molecules and macromolecules on the basis of quantum  and statistical mechanics. Special emphasis is given to molecular spectroscopy,  the interaction of polyatomic molecules with electromagnetic radiation (visual  light, ultraviolet and infrared radiation). Physics of macromolecules (or  polymers) is treated in detail. Numerous biomedical applications of the  fundamental concepts are considered including photosyntheses, molecular  mechanism of vision, DNA damage under UV irradiation, structure of major  biological molecules (proteins and nucleic acids). 4 cr  		

ENG BE 566: DNA Structure and Function
           			Physical structure and properties of DNA. The physical principles of the major  experimental methods to study DNA are explained, among them: X-ray analysis,  NMR, optical methods (absorption, circular dichroism, fluorescence),  centrifugation, gel electrophoresis, chemical and enzymatic probing. Different  theoretical models of DNA are presented, among them the melting (helix-coil)  model, the polyelectrolyte model, the elastic-rod model, and the topological  model. Theoretical approaches to treat the models, (e.g., the Monte Carlo  method) are covered. Special emphasis is placed on DNA topology and DNA unusual  structures and their biological significance. Major structural features of RNA  are considered in parallel with DNA. The main principles of DNA-protein  interaction are presented. the role of DNA and RNA structure in most fundamental  biological proceses, replication, transcription, recombination, reparation, and  translation is considered. 4 cr		

ENG BE 567: Nonlinear Systems in Biomedical Engineering
           			Introduction to nonlinear dynamical systems in biomedical engineering. Qualitative, analytical and computational techniques. Stability, bifurcations, oscillations, multistability, hysteresis, multiple time-scales, chaos. Introduction to experimental data analysis and control techniques. Applications discussed include population dynamics, biochemical systems, genetic circuits, neural oscillators, etc. 4 cr. 		

ENG BE 568: Systems Biology of Human Disease
	This course will train students to apply or develop computational network,  modeling, and machine learning concepts to probe into the systems biology of  disease. The aim of this course is to cover general concepts in biological  computing that provide the foundation of thinking computationally about  anomalous behavior in biological systems that cause diseases. The course also  aims to teach students to work in teams and develop the skills to plan and  coordinate a scientific project. The course will cover computational frameworks,  such as biological networks (including metabolic, regulatory, and signal  transduction networks), micro array analysis, proteomic analysis, next  generation sequencing, imaging, machine learning, probabilistic inference,  genetics, pathway analysis, network and graph theory, and other technologies to  medical diseases initially focusing on clincal problems such as cancer,  diabetes, inflammation, and aging. The course is aimed at seniors and graduate  students in biomedical engineering or bioinformatics; however, students from  other disciplines ranging from medicine to physics or computer science can  attend the class with some prerequisites. 4 cr.  		

ENG BE 569: Next Generation Sequencing
           			The advent of high throughput sequencing is virtually changing biology and  medicine. The technology enables us to catalog the entire functional parts list  of living organisms from bacteria to human, develop and validate regulatory  networks for controlling gene expression in systems biology models and develop  novel biomarkers for personalized medicine that guide pharmacological  treatments.   In this course we will review the foundations of the field,  starting from the biophysical foundations of current or emerging single molecule  DNA sequencing techniques, through an introduction to the analytical tools to  model and analyze NGS Data, and finally discussing clinical applications such as  predicting drug response focusing on cancer. The course will involve bi-weekly  homework assignments that include theoretical analysis and modeling, working  with multiple analysis tools for NGS data including assembly, re-sequencing,  alignments, RNA-seq, ChIP-seq, DNA methylation, mutation analysis and detection,  copy number variation detection, and their applications to cancer. 4 cr 		

           			. Introductory course in biological  visual neuroscience and computational  vision. Provides a survey of the psychophysical, neuroanatomical and   neurophysiological substrates of visual mechanisms underlying  perception of  visual motion, depth, objects, and space and of decision making mechanisms.   Discussion of theoretical, explanatory, paradigms for these visual mechanisms.  Topics addressed include psychophysics, methods from single cell recording  physiology and low field potentials (LFP),multimodal imaging and computational  modeling of various visual tasks and their modulation by attention. We will  briefly address learning mechanisms and their relationship to brain plasticity.  A term project is required for graduate credit.  4 cr.		

ENG BE 571: Introduction to Neuroengineering
	This course covers current and future neurotechnologies for analyzing the brain    and for treating neurological and psychiatric diseases. It focuses on the    biophysical, biochemical, anatomical principles governing the design of the    current neurotechnologies, with a goal of encouraging innovations of new    generation of therapies. Topics include basic microscopic and macroscopic    architecture of the brain, the fundamental properties of individual neurons and    ensemble neural networks, electrophysiology, DBS, TMS, various imaging methods,    optical neural control technologies, optogenetics, neuropharmacology, and    gene/stem-cell therapies. Discussions of related literatures and design projects    will be involved. Enrollment is limited to 30 students. The course is open to    MS, MEng, and PhD students, as well as qualified undergraduate seniors. This   course meets with BE 771. 4 cr.		

ENG BE 605: Molecular Bioengineering
           			Provides engineering perspectives on the building blocks of living cells and  materials for biotechnology. Focuses on origins and synthesis in life and the  laboratory, including biological pathways for synthesis of DNA, RNA and  proteins; transduction, transmission, storage and retrieval of biological  information by macromolecules; polymerase chain reaction, restriction enzymes,  DNA sequencing; energetics of protein folding and trafficking; mechanisms of  enzymatic catalysts and receptor-ligand binding; cooperative proteins, multi- protein complexes and control of metabolic pathways; generation, storage,  transmission and release of biomolecular energy; and methods for study and  manipulation of molecules which will include isolation, purification, detection,  chemical characterization, imaging and visualization of structure. 4 cr		

ENG BE 606: Quantitative Physiology for Engineers
           			Course in human physiology for biomedical engineering students. Fundamentals of  cellular and systems physiology, including the nervous , muscular,  cardiovascular, respiratory, renal, gastrointestinal, endocrine and immune  systems. Quantitative and engineering approaches will be applied to understanding  physiological concepts. 4 cr		

ENG BE 695: Advanced Biomedical Design and Development
	This two-semester 8-credit course is a required sequence for students enrolled  in the BME Master of Engineering program. Successfully completing the sequence  fulfills one technical and one leadership requirement towards completing their  Master of Engineering degree. During the first semester, students will qualify  for Medical Observer Status and the Boston Medical Center and project teams will  conduct formal Needs Finding protocols by observing current clinical challenges  first-hand under the guidance of senior members of the clinical community. Based  on these observations, students will compare alternative design strategies, and  select an optimum approach based on weighed clinical requirements for an  innovative design solution. During the second semester, project teams will  develop their designs, make multiple prototypes using the resources of the  Engineering Product Innovation Center. Formal Design Control, Life Cycle, Risk  Analysis, Project Management, and Intellectual Property Strategies will be  introduced. Using formal Product Develop Protocols, students will prepare a  detailed regulatory and implementation pathway analysis for completing the  commercialization process needed to eventually bring their innovations into  clinical practice. 8 credits over 2 semesters - must enroll for both semesters.		

ENG BE 700: Advanced Topics in Biomedical Engineering
           			Advanced study of a specific research topic in biomedical engineering. Intended  primarily for advanced graduate students. Variable cr.		

ENG BE 703: Numerical Methods and Modeling in Biomedical Engineering
           			This graduate course is an introduction to the computational tools most commonly  applied in biological and physiological research, with emphasis on the art of  using models, programming and simulation to reach useful conclusions and  insights. Specific topics include exact and iterative methods for the solution  of large systems, differentiation and interpolation numerical integration,  pseudorandomization, Monte Carlo methods and statistical bootstrap methods,  Fourier transform and spectral methods, and also finite difference methods for  the solution of ordinary and partial differential equations. Each weekly lecture  is accompanied by a computer lab in which the students will gain experience in  the use of the techniques under study. Interspersed with learning of methods  will be a variety of specific bioengineeering applications covering the range  from genes and molecules to cells, organs, and systems. 4 cr		

ENG BE 705: Single Molecule Approaches for Biophysics and Bioengineering - Fundamentals and  Applications
           			The emergence of single-molecule (SM) methods in biology and bioengineering in  the past decade have revolutionized the way scientists approach the molecular  biology of the cell. The ability to directly probe biomolecular process in real- time, in their native cellular environment, revealed the mechanism of  fundamental processes in biology with unprecedented detail and accuracy. As SM  methods are refined they are increasingly recruited by bioengineers to invent  the future platforms for molecular diagnostics and analytical detection. This  course covers experimental methods for investigating the molecular machinery of  a living cell in vitro and in live cells, and novel tools for sensing  biomolecules and their application in biotechnology. Fundamental principles  underlying fluorescence of single molecules, force measurements of biomolecules,  ion channel kinetics, and stochastic sensing, will be covered in the context of  relevant biological and biotechnological examples. There will be an emphasis on  fundamental physical concepts underlying these systems, coming from statistical  mechanics of soft matter. 4 cr. 		

ENG BE 707: Quantitative Studies of Excitable Cells
		Focuses on the properties of the membranes of nerve and muscle cells. Classical  models of resting potentials, action potentials, synaptic transmission, and  sensory receptors are treated. The structure and function of single ionic  channels are characterized in detail from patch-clamp recordings,  neuropharmacological studies, and molecular studies. Mechanisms of muscle  contraction and other forms of cellular motility are also covered. 4 cr		

ENG BE 710: Neural Plasticity and Perceptual Learning
           			This course explores the capacity of cortical sensory and motor maps in the  adult brain to change as a result of alterations in the effectiveness of the  input, direct damage, or practice. The lectures will describe and discuss (1)  the physiology and anatomy underlying adult dynamics; (2) psychophysical methods  and experimental paradigms that have been used to study cortical plasticity in  the early stages of the sensory and motor pathways; (3) evidence for perceptual  learning; and (4) biologically plausible computational models of learning. We  will discuss applications of functional neuroimaging to study perceptual  learning and restorative plasticity in the human brain. 4 cr		

ENG BE 726: Fundamentals of Biomaterials
           			Provides the chemistry and engineering skills needed to solve challenges in the  biomaterials and tissue engineering area, concentrating on the fundamental  principles in biomedical engineering, material science, and chemistry.  Covers  the structure and properties of hard materials (ceramics and metals) and soft  materials (polymers and hydrogels). Same as ME/MS 726. Students may not receive  credit for both. 4 cr  		

ENG BE 727: Principles and Applications of Tissue Engineering
           			Provides the chemistry and engineering skills needed to solve challenges in the  biomaterials and tissue engineering area, concentrating on cell-biomaterial  interactions, soft tissue mechanics and specific research topics.  Students will  write a NIH-style grant proposal on a specific research topic.  Same as ME/MS  727. Students may not receive credit for both. 4 cr		

ENG BE 745: Nanomedicine- Principles and Applications
           			The use of nanoscience and technology for biomedical problems has spawned a  field of applications ranging from nanoparticles for imaging and therapeutics,  to biosensors for disease diagnostics. Nanomedicine is a rapidly growing field  that exploits the novel properties of nanoscale materials and techniques to  rapidly advance our understanding of human biology and the practice of medicine.  This course focuses on the fundamental properties, synthesis and  characterization of nanomaterials, coupled with their applications in  nanomedicine, including: micro- and nano-particles for drug delivery and  imaging, microfluidics for in vitro diagnostics, nanomaterials and platforms for  biological applications. The biomedical applications include cancer,  cardiovascular disease, and infectious diseases. 4 cr 		

ENG BE 747: Advanced Signals and Systems Analysis for Biomedical Engineering
           			Introduction to advanced techniques for signals and systems analysis with  applications to problems in biomedical engineering research.  Time-domain and  frequency-domain analysis of multiple input, multiple output systems using the  fundamental matrix approach.  Hilbert transform relations; applications to head- related transfer functions.  Second-order characterization of stochastic  processes: power density spectra, cross-spectra, auto-and cross-correlation  functions.  Gaussian and Poisson processes.  Models of neural firing patterns.   Effects of linear systems on spectra and correlation functions.  Applications to  models of the peripheral auditory system.  Optimum processing applications.   Applications to psychophysical modeling.  Introduction to wavelets and wavelet  transforms.  Wavelet filter banks and wavelet signal processing. 4 cr		

ENG BE 765: Biomedical Optics and Biophotonics
	This course surveys the applications of optical science and engineering to a  variety of biomedical problems, with emphasis on optical and photonics  technologies that enable real, minimally-invasive clinical applications. The  course teaches only those aspects of biology itself that are necessary to  understand the purpose of the application. The first weeks introduce the optical  properties of tissue, and following lectures cover a range of topics in three  general areas: 1) Optical spectroscopy applied to diagnosis of cancer and other  tissue diseases; 2) Photon migration and optical imaging of subsurface  structures in tissue; and 3) Laser-tissue interactions and other applications of  light for therapeutic purposes. In addition to formal lectures, recent  publications from the literature will be selected as illustrative of various  topical areas, and for each publication one student will be assigned to prepare  an informal presentation (with overhead slides or PowerPoint) reviewing for the  class the underlying principles of that paper and outlining the research  results. Same as ENG EC 765; students may not receive credit for both. 4 cr		

ENG BE 771: Introduction to Neuroengineering
	This course covers existing and future neurotechnologies for analyzing brain   signals and for treating neurological and psychiatric diseases. It focuses on   the biophysical, biochemical, anatomical principles governing the design of   current neurotechnologies, with a goal of encouraging innovations of a new   generation of therapies. Topics include basic microscopic and macroscopic   architecture of the brain, the fundamental properties of individual neurons and   ensemble neural networks, electrophysiology, DBS, TMS, various imaging methods,   optical neural control technologies, optogenetics, neuropharmacology, gene   therapy, and stem-cell therapy. Discussions of related literatures and design   projects will be involved. This course is open to graduate students only and it  meets with BE571. 4 cr. 		

ENG BE 773: Advanced Optical Microscopy and Biological Imaging
           			This course will present a rigorous and detailed overview of the theory of  optical microscopy starting from basic notions in light propagation and covering  advanced concepts in imaging theory such as Fourier optics and partial  coherence. Topics will include basic geometric optics, photometry, diffraction,  optical transfer functions, phase contrast microscopy, 3D imaging theory, basic  scattering and fluorescence theory, imaging in turbid media, confocal  microscopy, optical coherence tomography (OCT), holographic microscopy,  fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS), fluorescence resonant energy  transfer (FRET), and nonlinear-optics based techniques such as two-photon  excited fluorescence (TPEF) and second-harmonic generation (SHG) microscopy.  Biological applications such as calcium and membrane-potential imaging will be  discussed. A background in optics is preferable. A background in signals and  analysis is indispensable. In particular, the student should be comfortable with  Fourier transforms, complex analysis, and transfer functions. Meets with  ENGEC773.  Students may not receive credit for both. 4 cr		

ENG BE 777: Computational Genomics
           			A case-study approach to current topics in computational genomics. Mathematical  and engineering tools for analyzing genomic data are reviewed. The relationships  between sequence, structure, and function in complex biological networks are  studied using quantitative modeling. Whole genome analysis is performed.  Completion of a series of projects emphasizing real-life data, integrated  approaches, practical applications, hands-on analysis, and collaboration. Course  projects aim at improving current approaches and involve C and/or PERL  programming to interface with existing software packages. The course will be  offered in a computer laboratory equipped with one laptop per student. 4 cr		

ENG BE 788: Soft Tissue Biomechanics
           			This course will introduce students to the mechanics of soft biological tissue.   In particular, the response of the heart, vasculature, and tissue scaffolds to  mechanical loads from the perspective of nonlinear solid mechanics will be  studied. Constitutive models for hyperelastic materials will be adapted to  biomaterials to handle mechanical characteristics such as nonlinearity,  viscoelasticity, and orthotropy.  Basic experimental methods, and anatomy and  physiology of particular tissue types will also be introduced. Emphasis is  placed on integrating the basic analytical, experimental, and computational  methods for a  more complete understanding of the underlying mechanobiology.   Meets with ENG ME788.  Students may not receive credit for both.  4 cr.		

ENG BE 790: Biomedical Engineering Seminar
           			Discussion of current topics in biomedical engineering. Students are expected to read assigned journal articles and to participate actively in weekly discussion meetings. Meetings organized around presentations by invited guests of their research problems, strategy, and technique.  		

           			This course allows PhD students to take part in a laboratory rotation system.  During these rotations, students become familiar with research activity within  departmental laboratories that are of interest to them. These rotations help  students identify the laboratory in which they will perform their dissertation  research. Postbachelor's PhD students must complete three rotations: one in  their first semester of matriculation, and two in their second semester. Post- master's PhD students must complete a minimum of two rotations, one of which  must be in their first semester of matriculation. Normally each rotation will  last up to seven weeks. Variable cr.		

ENG BE 792: Critical Literature Review
           			Peer-reviewed publications in the area of biomedical engineering will be  critically evaluated.  Scientific ethics and the process of review and  publication of manuscripts will be discussed.  The classes will be a mix of  didactic information and group discussion.  Methodological issues covered will  include study design, techniques used, and interpretation of research findings.   Students completing this course will understand the principles underlying  preparation and publication of scientific manuscripts and will be able to apply  these principles as they read the scientific literature. 2 cr		

ENG BE 801: Teaching Practicum
           			This course cannot be used to meet the structured course requirements. Practical  teaching experience for an assigned course, includes some combination of running  discussion sections, managing laboratory sections, providing some lectures,  preparing homework and solution sets, exams, and grading. Attend  lectures/seminars on best teaching practices. 4 cr		

ENG BE 802: Teaching Practicum II
	Practical teaching experience. 4 cr 		

ENG BE 900: Research
           			Participation in a research project under the direction of a faculty advisor.  Includes research leading to the development of an MS thesis proposal or PhD  prospectus, as well as the work necessary to generate an original MS thesis or  PhD dissertation. Variable cr		

ENG BE 951: Independent Study
           			A course of reading under the direction of a faculty advisor covering subject  matter not available in a lecture course. Final report or examination normally  required. Variable cr		

ENG BF 527: Applications in Bioinformatics
           			The field of bioinformatics is concerned with the management and analysis of large biological datasets (such as the human genome) for the purpose of improving our understanding of complex living systems.  This course introduces graduate students and upper-level undergraduate students to the core problems in bioinformatics, along with the databases and tools that have been developed to study them.  Computer labs emphasize the acquisition of practical bioinformatics skills for use in students research.  Familiarity with basic molecular biology is a prerequisite; no prior programming knowledge is assumed. Specific topics will include the analysis of biological sequences, structures, and networks.  E-mail questions to the instructors, Joshua Campbell (camp@bu.edu) and Jignesh Parikh (jparikh@bu.edu). 		

ENG BF 541: Bioinformatics Internship
	Internships provide the bridge between classroom/laboratory study and ?real-world? employment. Each student must complete an internship with a minimum of 400 hours of on-the-job experience (e.g., 10 weeks full-time work in the summer). The format is very flexible, and part-time internships running concurrently with classes or employment are acceptable. Students must consult with their academic advisor to assess the suitability of a proposed internship.  		

ENG BF 571: Dynamics and Evolution of Biological Networks
		The course focuses on mathematical models for exploring the organization, dynamics, and evolution of biochemical and genetic networks.  Topics include: introductions to metabolic and genetic networks, deterministic and stochastic kinetics of biochemical pathways; genome-scale models of metabolic reaction fluxes; models of regulatory networks; modular architecture of biological networks.		

ENG BF 690: Bioinformatics Challenge Project
	Project course for first year Bioinformatics graduate students.  Open-ended problems will involve bioinformatics as a key element, typically requiring the use of large data sets and computational analysis to make predictions about molecular function, molecular interactions, regulation, etc.  Projects will be proposed by the Bioinformatics program faculty and selected by student in teams of three.  The end result will be a set of predictions, some of which can be validated retrospectively using data available through online sources and some of which will require experimental validation.  During the last 2 months of the academic year, teams will design feasible validation experiments in consultation with the experimental faculty. 		

ENG BF 752: LAW&amp;Eth Bio Sci
	This course description is currently under construction.		

ENG BF 768: Biological Database Analysis
	Describes relational data models and database management systems. Teaches the   theories and techniques of constructing relational databases with emphasis on   those aspects needed for various biological data. Introduces the relational   database query language SQL. Describes methods for ensuring data consistency and   data retrieval efficiency. Object-oriented programming is introduced primarily   as an implementation aid for constructing, loading, and accessing databases.   Utilizes web-based programming tools to implement user access to databases.   Emphasis will be on solving problems associated with large and complex data   sets. Course includes a final project implementing a database using real data   from a local biology/medical school lab.		

ENG BF 778: Physical Chemistry for Systems Biology
	This course introduces students to quantitative modeling in bioinformatics and systems biology.  We begin with basic principles of statistical thermodynamics, chemical kinetics, with selected applications in biomolecular systems.  Next we describe molecular driving forces in biology, and computation with biomolecular structures.  Finally we discuss quantitative models of biomolecular networks, and design principles of biological circuits.		

ENG BF 810: Phd Lab Rotat'N
	This course description is currently under construction.		

ENG BF 821: Bioinfo Gradsem
	This course description is currently under construction.		

ENG EC 311: Introduction to Logic Design
           			Introduction to hardware building blocks used in digital computers. Boolean algebra, combinatorial and sequential circuits: analysis and design. Adders, multipliers, decoders, encoders, multiplexors. Programmable logic devices: read-only memory, programmable arrays, Verilog. Counters and registers. Includes lab. 4 cr, 		

ENG EC 327: Introduction to Software Engineering
           			This course aims to introduce students to software design, programming techniques, data structures, and software engineering principles. The course is structured bottom up, beginning with basic hardware followed by an understanding of machine language that controls the hardware and the assembly language that organizes that control. It then proceeds through fundamental elements of functional programming languages, using C as the case example, and continues with the principles of object-oriented programming, as principally embodied in C++ but also its daughter languages Java, C#, and objective C. The course will conclude with an introduction to elementary data structures and algorithmic analysis. Throughout, the course develops core competencies in software engineering, including programming style, optimization, debugging, compilation, and program management, utilizing a variety of Integrated Development Environments and operating systems. 4 cr.		

ENG EC 330: Applied Algorithms for Engineers
           			Introduction to the general concept of algorithms. Efficiency and run-time of algorithms. Graph algorithms, priority queues, search trees.  Various approaches to design of algorithms and data structures, together with their applications to numerical and non-numerical problems. 4 cr.		

ENG EC 381: Probability Theory in Electrical and Computer Engineering
           			Introduction to modeling uncertainty in electrical and computer systems. Experiments, models, and probabilities.  Discrete and continuous random variables. Reliability models for circuits. Probability distributions. Moments and expectations. Random vectors. Functions of random variables. Sums of random variables and limit theorems. Signal detection and estimation. Basic stochastic processes. Discrete-time Markov chains. State-diagrams. Applications to statistical modeling and interpretation of experimental data in computer, communication, and optical systems. 4cr,		

ENG EC 401: Signals and Systems
           			Cannot be taken for credit in addition to ENG BE 401. Continuous-time and discrete-time signals and systems. Convolution sum, convolution integral. Linearity, time-invariance, causality, and stability of systems. Frequency domain analysis of signals and systems. Filtering, sampling, and modulation. Laplace transform, z-transform, pole-zero plots. Linear feedback systems. Includes lab. 4 cr.		

           			Analysis of linear feedback systems, their characteristics, performance, and stability. The Routh-Hurwitz, root-locus, Bode, and Nyquist techniques. Design and compensation of feedback control systems. 4 cr.		

ENG EC 410: Introduction to Electronics
           			Principles of diode, BJT, and MOSFET circuits. Graphical and analytical means of analysis. Piecewise linear modeling; amplifiers; digital inverters and logic gates. Biasing and small-signal analysis, microelectronic design techniques. Time-domain and frequency domain analysis and design. Includes lab. 4 cr.		

ENG EC 412: Analog Electronics
           			Continuation of ENG EC 410.  Topics include detailed analysis of differential  amplifiers, design and principles of operational amplifier including multistage  circuit structure, BJT, MOSFET, CMOS, and BiCMOS design principles, active  filters and oscillators, negative and positive feedback, and power devices.  Includes lab. 4 cr		

ENG EC 413: Computer Organization
           			Introduction to the fundamentals and design of computer systems. Topics covered include computer instruction sets, assembly language programming, arithmetic circuits, CPU design (data path and control, pipelining), performance evaluation, memory devices, memory systems including caching and virtual memory, and I/O. Project using design automation tools. Includes lab. 4 cr.		

ENG EC 415: Communication Systems
           			Signal analysis and transmission: amplitude modulation, angle modulation, pulse-amplitude and pulse-code modulation; amplitude shift-keying, frequency shift-keying, phase-shift keying. Case studies of practical communication systems. Includes lab. 4 cr.		

ENG EC 416: Introduction to Digital Signal Processing
           			Introduces techniques of digital signal processing and application to deterministic as well as random signals. Topics include representation of discrete-time random signals, A/D conversion, D/A conversion, frequency domain and z-domain analysis of discrete-time signals and systems, discrete-time feedback systems, difference equation and FFT based realizations of digital filters, design of IIR Butterworth filters, window-based FIR filter design, digital filtering of random signals, FFT-based power spectrum analysis. Includes lab. 4 cr.		

ENG EC 417: Electric Energy Systems: Adapting to Renewable Resources
           			This course will present a detailed perspective of electric power systems from generation, transmission, storage, to distribution to end users.  Significant emphasis will be placed on methodologies for reliable and efficient transmission and distribution of power over the grid including challenges for adapting to  renewable resources such as photovoltaics and wind.  Conventional approaches will be presented with emphasis to future technology such as the "smart grid".  Analysis of 3-phase power will be presented using numerous examples.  Items such as power system stability, security, reliability will be covered.  Optimization methods, models, simulation techniques, monitoring and control, grid storage technologies, and micro-grids will also be discussed.  Power electronics will be introduced specifically in reference to high voltage circuits. Finally, planning for large numbers of electric vehicles will present new challenges to the effective distribution of power which will be discussed from both centralized and decentralized approaches.		

ENG EC 440: Introduction to Operating Systems
           			Operating system concepts and design objectives. Concurrent processes, process synchronization, and deadlocks. Resource management including virtual memory, CPU scheduling, and secondary storage. File structures, input/output, and distributed systems. Case studies of popular operating systems. 4 cr.		

ENG EC 441: Introduction to Computer Networking
           			Computer networks, focusing on the Internet. Application protocols (Web, E-mail), basics of socket programming, major Internet protocols (TCP and IP), fundamental aspects of routing and reliable data transfer over networks, medium access protocols, wired and wireless Local Area Networks (LANs) technologies. Hands-on laboratory modules on client-server programming, Internet experiments, and protocol implementation. Includes lab. 4 cr.		

ENG EC 447: Software Design
           			Object-oriented software design for desktop applications with a graphical user  interface. C# and Microsoft .NET programming assignments. Provides a solid  foundation in modern programming for engineering and other applications. 4 cr		

ENG EC 450: Microprocessors
           			This course focuses on the interface between the digital world and the physical world. Hardware and software design methodology for embedded microcomputers. Open laboratory and projects and considerable hands-on work. Architecture, hardware, I/O, interrupts, memory organization and decoding. Uses the TI MSP430 family microcontrollers. Peripheral devices including general digital I/O, timers, analog to digital converters, and synchronous serial interfaces SPI and I2C. The course stresses the dependency of hardware and software design on project identification, rationale, and goals. Includes lab.		

ENG EC 451: Directed Study
	Student may, under the supervision of a faculty member, undertake individual study of a subject relevant to electrical, computer, and systems engineering, if the subject is not covered in a regularly scheduled course. Tangible evidence of achievement must be submitted at the end of the semester. Variable cr.		

ENG EC 455: Electromagnetic Systems I
           			Time varying electric and magnetic fields. Maxwell equations. Electromagnetic  waves. Propagation, reflection, and transmission. Remote sensing applications.  Radio frequency coaxial cables, microwave waveguides, and optical fibers.  Microwave sources and resonators. Antennas and radiation. Radio links, radar,  and wireless communication systems. Electromagnetic effects in high-speed  digital systems. Includes lab. 4 cr		

ENG EC 456: Electromagnetic Systems II
           			Electric field, energy, and force. Lorenz force. Dielectric materials. Steady  electric currents. Magnetic field, energy, and force. Magnetic materials.  Applications of electrostatics, magnetostatics, and electrodynamics.  Electromagnetic waves in dielectric and conducting materials. Solution techniques  for electromagnetic fields and waves. 4 cr		

ENG EC 463: Senior Design Project I
           			Development of the technical, communication, personal, and team skills needed for successful design in electrical and computer engineering. Specifications and standards, information collection, design strategies, modeling, computer-aided design, optimization, system design, failure and reliability, human factors. Oral and written communication of technical information. Team dynamics and ethical issues in design. Design project for a small-scale electrical or computer system. Preparation of detailed proposals for senior design projects in the following semester. Includes lab. 4 cr.		

ENG EC 464: Senior Design Project II
           			Continuation of a team project in an area of electrical and computer engineering, as proposed in SC 463. Application of technical, communication, personal, and team skills. Oral and written communication of technical information, including progress reports, technical memos, final report, and oral presentations. Includes lab. 4 cr.		

ENG EC 467: Senior Honors Thesis
           			Well-prepared students may choose to do a formal senior thesis under the direct guidance of a departmental faculty member. Students selecting this option must obtain petitioned approval before the beginning of the semester of thesis registration. 4 cr.		

ENG EC 470: Sensors in Space
           			This course provides a practical introduction to the development, integration, and deployment of instrumentation on spacecraft platforms.  Students are introduced to the physical concepts and practical designs of sensors that measure particles, magnetic fields, and electric fields over a range of energies and frequencies. Particular attention is given to special constraints presented by the space environment.  In addition to established designs, the course will also cover new and emerging sensor technologies.  The course includes a lab component in which students will learn about small satellite development through design and implementation of a high-altitude balloon ("balloon-sat") experiment. 4 cr.		

ENG EC 471: Physics of Semiconductor Devices
           			This course addresses the theory of semiconductors and semiconductor electronic  devices. The section on the theory of semiconductor includes their crystal  structure, energy bands, and carrier concentration in thermal equilibrium as  well as carrier transport phenomena (drift, diffusion, generation and  recombination, tunneling, high field effects, and thermionic emission). The  section on electronic devices addresses the theory of p-n junctions and  heterojunctions, of Bipolar Junction Transistors (BJT), Thyristors, Metal Oxide  Semiconductor (MOS) Capacitors and MOS Field Effect Transistors (MOSFETs). 4 cr		

ENG EC 481: Fundamentals of Nanomaterials and Nanotechnology
	Nanotechnology encompasses the understanding and manipulation of matter with at least one characteristic dimension measured in nanometers with novel size-dependent physical properties as a result. This course  explores the electronic and optical properties of material at the nanoscale and applications of nano-scale devices. The parallels between light and electron confinement are emphasized, e.g. in terms of normal modes, resonances and resonators, and the dispersion of light and electrons as affected by the periodicity of crystals and photonics crystals. Wave-mechanics and electromagnetics are  reviewed and used to understand confinement and energy quantization.  Nano-devices such as carbon nanotube transistors, nano-resonators, nanocavity lasers, nano-biosensor and their applications are discussed.  Fabrication using top-down and bottom-up methods are discussed, as well as characterization using scanning probe methods, electron microscopy, and spectroscopic techniques. 4 cr.		

           			Specific prerequisites vary according to topic. Coverage of a specific topic in electrical, computer, or systems engineering. Subject varies from year to year and is generally from an area of current or emerging research. 		

ENG EC 501: Dynamic System Theory
           			Introduction to analytical concepts and examples of dynamic systems and control. Mathematical description and state space formation of dynamic systems; modeling, controllability, and observability. Eigenvector and transform analysis of linear systems including canonical forms. Performance specifications. State feedback: pole placement and the linear quadratic regulator. Introduction to MIMO design and system identification using computer tools and laboratory experiments. Same as ENG ME 501 and ENG SE 501. Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG EC 504: Advanced Data Structures
           			Review of basic data structures and Java syntax. Data abstraction and object-oriented design in the context of high-level languages and databases. Design implementation from the perspective of data structure efficiency and distributed control. Tailoring priority queues, balanced search trees, and graph algorithms to real-world problems, such as network routing, database management, and transaction processing.		

ENG EC 505: Stochastic Processes
           			Introduction to discrete and continuous-time random processes. Correlation and power spectral density functions. Linear systems driven by random processes. Optimum detection and estimation. Bayesian, Weiner, and Kalman filtering. 		

ENG EC 508: Wireless Communication
	Fundamentals of wireless communication from a physical layer perspective.  Multipath signal propagation and fading channel models. Design of constellations  to exploit time, frequency, and spatial diversity. Reliable communication and  single-user capacity.  Interference management, multiple-access protocols, and  multi-user capacity.  Cellular uplink and downlink.  Multiple-antenna systems  and architectures.  Connections to modern wireless systems and standards. 		

ENG EC 511: Software Systems Design
           			Concept of software product life cycle. Various forms of a software product from requirements definition through operation and maintenance. Life cycle models and the activities performed in each phase. Role of rapid prototyping in requirements analysis and design. Design concepts and design strategies. Comparative evaluation of requirements definition and design methods. Analysis and design validation. Small-team projects involving architectural design and software specification. 		

ENG EC 512: Enterprise Client-Server Software Systems Design
           			Examination of past, current, and emerging technologies. Client side technologies including DHTML, CSS, scripting, ActiveX, RSS, and proprietary applications. Legacy server side technologies including CGI, ISAPL, and active server pages. Current and emerging server technologies including ASP.NET 2, XML/SOAP web services, wireless and handheld access, WAP/WML, SQL databases, streaming media, CMS, and middleware. Design and implementation of solutions involving database connectivity, session state, security requirements, SSL, and authentication of clients. Small-team projects involving design through implementation. 		

ENG EC 513: Computer Architecture
           			Computer architecture and design. Topics include computer arithmetic and ALU design; performance evaluation; instruction set design; CPU design, including pipelining, branch prediction, and speculative execution; memory hierarchy, including cache basics, cache design for performance, and virtual memory support; I/O, including devices, interfaces, specification, and modeling. Examples from high-end microprocessors and embedded systems. 		

ENG EC 514: Simulation
           			Modeling of discrete event systems and their analysis through simulation. Systems considered include, but are not limited to, manufacturing systems, computer-communication networks, and computer systems. Simulating random environments and output analysis in such contexts. A simulation language is introduced and is the main tool for simulation experimentation. Meets with ENG ME 514; students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG EC 515: Digital Communication
           			Canonical point-to-point digital communication problem; Communication channel models; Optimal receiver principles with focus on additive Gaussian noise channels: Maximum Aposteriori Probability (MAP) and Maximum Likelihood (ML) receivers for both vector and waveform channels, principles of irrelevance and reversibility; Concepts of signal space and signal constellation; Efficient signaling for message sequences over frequency-flat additive Gaussian noise channels: basic digital modulation and demodulation techniques and their performance analysis; Notions of symbol and bit rate, symbol and bit error probability, and power and bandwidth efficiency; Real passband additive Gaussian noise waveform channels and their equivalent complex base-band representation; Efficient signaling for message sequences over general bandlimited additive Gaussian noise channels: signal design and equalization methods to combat intersymbol interference; Coherent versus Noncoherent digital signaling;  Synchronization; Channel estimation; Error correction coding basics. 		

ENG EC 516: Digital Signal Processing
           			Advanced structures and techniques for digital signal processing and their properties in relation to application requirements such as real-time, low-bandwidth, and low-power operation. Optimal FIR filter design; time-dependent Fourier transform and filterbanks; Hilbert transform relations; cepstral analysis and deconvolution; parametric signal modeling; multidimensional signal processing; multirate signal processing. 		

ENG EC 517: Introduction to Information Theory
           			Discrete memoryless stationary sources and channels; Information measures on discrete and continuous alphabets and their properties: entropy, conditional entropy, relative entropy, mutual information, differential entropy; Elementary constrained convex optimization; Fundamental information inequalities: data-processing, and Fano's; Block source coding with outage: weak law of large numbers, entropically typical sequences and typical sets, asymptotic equipartition property; Block channel coding with and without cost constraints: jointly typical sequences, channel capacity, random coding, Shannon's channel coding theorem, introduction to practical linear block codes; Rate-distortion theory: Shannon's block source coding theorem relative to a fidelity criterion; Source and channel coding for Gaussian sources and channels and parallel Gaussian sources and channels (water-filling and reverse water-filling); Shannon's source-channel separation theorem for point-to-point communication; Lossless data compression: Kraft's inequality, Shannon's lossless source coding theorem, variable-length source codes including Huffman, Shannon-Fano-Elias, and Arithmetic codes; Applications; Mini course-project. 		

ENG EC 518: Project Management for Software-Intensive Systems
           			Planning and control of a project involving the definition, development and implementation of a system in which software provides essential functionality.  Cost factors and cost estimation models; cost/benefit trade-offs, risk analysis; project metrics for quality, schedule, budget, and progress. Role of the project manager and organization of the development team. Case studies used to illustrate successes and failures in the management of actual projects. Small-team projects involving the development of project plans for a system that requires software development and hardware-software integration. 4 cr.		

ENG EC 519: Speech Processing by Humans and Machines
           			Speech (naturally spoken) is the main mode of communication between humans.   Speech technology aims at providing the means for speech-controlled man-machine   interaction. The goal of this course is to provide the basic concepts and   theories of speech production, speech perception, and speech signal processing.   The course is organized in a manner that builds a strong foundation of basics,   followed by a range of signal processing methods for representing and processing   the speech signal. 4 cr.		

ENG EC 520: Digital Image Processing and Communication
           			Review of signals and systems in multiple dimensions. Sampling of still images. Quantization of image intensities. Human visual system. Image color spaces. Image models and transformations. Image enhancement and restoration. Image analysis. Image compression fundamentals. Image compression standards (JPEG, JPEG-2000). Homework will include MATLAB assignments.  		

ENG EC 521: Cybersecurity
           			Fundamentals of security related to computers and computer networks. Laws and ethics. Social engineering and psychology-based attacks. Information gathering, network mapping, service enumeration, and vulnerability scanning. Operating system security related to access control, exploits, and disk forensics. Shellcoding.  Wired and wireless network security at the physical, network, and application layers.  Theoretical lessons are augmented with case studies and demonstrative experimental labs.     		

ENG EC 524: Optimization Theory and Methods
           			Introduction to optimization problems and algorithms emphasizing problem formulation, basic methodologies, and underlying mathematical structures. Classical optimization theory as well as recent advances in the field. Topics include modeling issues and formulations, simplex method, duality theory, sensitivity analysis, large-scale optimization, integer programming, interior-point methods, non-linear programming optimality conditions, gradient methods, and conjugate direction methods. Applications are considered; case studies included. Extensive paradigms from production planning and scheduling in manufacturing systems.  Other illustrative applications include fleet management, air traffic flow management, optimal routing in communication networks, and optimal portfolio selection.  Meets with ENGSE524.  Students may not receive credit for both.   		

ENG EC 527: High Performance Programming with Multicore and GPUs
	Considers theory and practice of hardware-aware programming.  Key theme is obtaining a significant fraction of potential performance through knowledge of the underlying computing platform and how the platform interacts with programs.  Studies architecture of, and programming methods for, contemporary high-performance processors. These include complex processor cores, multicore processors, and graphics processors.  Laboratory component includes use and evaluation of programming methods on these processors through applications such as matrix operations and the Fast Fourier Transform.		

ENG EC 533: Advanced Discrete Mathematics
           			Selected topics in discrete mathematics. Formal systems. Mathematical deduction. Logical concepts. Theorem proving. Sets, relations on sets, operations on sets. Functions, graphs, mathematical structures, morphisms, algebraic structures, semigroups, quotient groups, finite-state machines, their homomorphism, and simulation. Machines as recognizers, regular sets. Kleene theorem.		

ENG EC 534: Discrete Stochastic Models
           			Markov chains, Chapman-Kolmogorov equation. Classification of states, limiting probabilities, Poisson process and its generalization, continuous-time Markov chains, queuing theory, reliability theory.		

           			This course introduces students to a unified view of hardware and software in embedded systems. The lectures will survey a comprehensive array of techniques including system specification languages, embedded computer architecture, real-time operating systems, hardware-software codesign, and co-verification techniques. The lectures will be complemented by assignments and projects that involve system design, analysis, optimization, and verification. 		

ENG EC 541: Computer Communication Networks
           			Basic delay and blocking models for computer communications: M/M/1 queue; Jackson networks and loss networks; analysis of MAC protocols; flow control for data traffic; TCP and active queueing mechanisms for congestion control; traffic shaping and network calculus; packet switch architectures and scheduling algorithms; routing algorithms; flow assignment and fairness.  		

ENG EC 543: Sustainable Power Systems: Planning, Operation and Markets
           			Breakthroughs in clean energy generation technologies and the advantage of exploiting efficiently the available work in fossil fuels will render electricity the dominant energy form in a sustainable environment future. We review the key characteristics of Electric Power Transmission and Distribution (T&amp;D) networks and the associated planning and operation requirements that ensure supply adequacy, system security and stability. Capital asset investment and operation cost minimization is discussed in a systems engineering context where the assets as well as the dynamic behavior of generators, T&amp;D networks, and loads interact. Recent developments in the formation of competitive wholesale markets at the High Voltage Transmission system level, the associated market participation and clearing rules and the market clearing optimization algorithms are presented and analyzed in terms of their effectiveness in fostering cost reflective price signals and competitive conditions that encourage optimal distributed/not-centralized investment and operating decisions. Finally, we present T&amp;D congestion and supply-demand imbalance related barriers to the widespread adoption of environmentally friendly and economically efficient technological breakthroughs, and propose a systems engineering and real-time retail-market based coordination of centralized as well as decentralized generation, storage and load management resources that is able to achieve desirable synergies and mitigate these barriers. 4 cr		

ENG EC 544: Networking the Physical World
           			Considers the evolution of embedded network sensing systems with the introduction of wireless network connectivity. Key themes are computing optimized for resource constrained (cost, energy, memory and storage space) applications and sensing interfaces to connect to the physical world. Studies current technology for networked embedded network sensors including protocol standards. A laboratory component of the course introduces students to the unique characteristics of distributed sensor motes including programming, reliable communication, sensing modalities, calibration, and application development. Meets with ENGME544. Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG EC 551: Advanced Digital Design with Verilog and FPGA
           			Content includes use of HDL (Verilog) for design, synthesis and simulation, and principles of register transfer level (RTL). Programmable logic, such as field programmable gate array (FPGA) devices, has become a major component of digital design. In this class the students learn how to write HDL models that can be automatically synthesized into integrated circuits such as FPGA. Laboratory and homework exercises include writing HDL models of combinational and sequential circuits, synthesizing models, performing simulation, and fitting to an FPGA by using automatic place and route. The course has lab orientation and is based on a sequence of Verilog design examples. 		

ENG EC 560: Introduction to Photonics
           			Introduction to ray optics; matrix optics; wave optics; Fourier optics; electromagnetic optics including absorption and dispersion. Polarization, reflection and refraction, anisotropic media, liquid crystals, and polarization devices. Guided-wave and fiber optics. Nanophotonics. 		

ENG EC 561: Error-Control Codes
           			Introduction to codes for error detection and correction in communication and computation channels, linear algebra over finite fields, bounds, Shannon?s Theorem, perfect and quasi-perfect codes, probability of error detection, Hamming, BCH, MDS, Reed-Solomon, and non-linear codes. Application of codes to error detection/correction in communication channels, computer memories, processors, and multiprocessor systems. Data compression and data reconciliation by error-detecting or error-correcting codes. 		

ENG EC 563: Fiber Optics and Communications Systems
           			This course will cover the theory light propagation and manipulation in an optical fiber both in the linear and nonlinear regimes. This theory will be used to introduce design, both of optical fibers for transmission as well as for devices and components. The latter part of the course will use these concepts to illustrate applications in which fibers and fiber devices are used. The emphasis will be on telecommunications systems, but the course will also touch upon other emerging applications such as lasers, sensors, biomedical systems and astrophotonics. Two lectures, two hours a week. 4 cr.		

ENG EC 565: Electromagnetic Fundamentals
		Fundamentals of electromagnetic theory as deduced from Maxwell's equations and    material modeling; electromagnetic radiation and quasistatic limits in    electromagnetic modeling.  Radio frequency coaxial cables; VLSI interconnects,    transmission lines.  Waveguides and resonators; both dielectric and hollow.     Particle tracking, plasmas, microwave sources, with applications.  Depending on    time and interest:  numerical methods (variational formulations will be    emphasized whenever practical), inverse problems; applications of magnetics and    superconductivity.		

ENG EC 566: The Atmosphere and Space Environment
           			Introduction to the upper atmosphere and ionosphere. The dynamic, electrodynamic, radiative, and chemical processes occurring in the atmosphere from ground level to near-space are developed to establish the conditions found in the upper-atmospheric/ionospheric region. Recent offerings have included numerical simulation of the ionospheric electron density profile. Numerical experiments that change the solar input and neutral atmospheric density, composition, winds, and temperature are then run to study the response of the ionosphere to these factors that control the ionosphere. Recommended for graduate students and advanced undergraduate students in engineering, astronomy, and physics and those with interests in environmental topics. 		

ENG EC 568: Optical Fibers and WaveGuides
           			Whether it be the FIOS internet connection at our homes, or fiber lasers powerful enough to cut metals (many automobile chassis are now made using fiber lasers), or the ability to perform endoscopic surgery and imaging, or doing frequency metrology with super-continuum sources (the basis of a few recent Nobel prizes)... the optical fiber has played a central, often dominant, role in many applications that impact the way we live. The main function of an optical fiber is to carry an electromagnetic (in the optical frequency) pulse over distances ranging from meters to greater than ten thousand kilometers without distortions. Fibers can also become smart light-pipes when they are intentionally designed to alter, temporally shape or amplify light pulses. Moreover, new developments in this field such as photonic bandgap fibers, fiber nanowires and higher-order mode fibers, are opening up new directions in science and technology.  This course will introduce the optical fiber waveguide and its theory of operation. Specifically, the design and impact of the two most important properties in optical fibers -- dispersion and nonlinearity -- that govern the evolution of light in optical fibers, will be covered in detail. The latter part of the course will describe new fibers and fiber-structures that are active research topics today. One lecture of the course will include a tour of an actual, industrial-scale fiber fabrication facility. 4 cr.  		

ENG EC 569: Introduction to Subsurface Imaging
           			Introduction to subsurface imaging using electromagnetic, optical, X-ray, and acoustic waves. Transverse and axial imaging using localized probes (confocal scanning, time of flight, and interferometric techniques). Multiview tomographic imaging: computed axial tomography, diffraction tomography, diffuse optical tomography, electrical impedance tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging. Image reconstruction and inverse problems. Hyperspectral and multisensor imaging. 		

ENG EC 570: Lasers&amp;Applctns
           			This course description is currently under construction.		

ENG EC 571: Digital VLSI Circuit Design
           			Very-large-scale integrated circuit design. Review of FET basics. Functional module design, including BiCMOS, combinational and sequential logic, programmable logic arrays, finite-state machines, ROM, and RAM. Fabrication techniques, layout strategies, scalable design rules, design-rule checking, and guidelines for testing and testability. Analysis of factors affecting speed of charge transfer, power requirements, control and minimization of parasitic effects, survey of VLSI applications. Extensive CAD laboratory accompanies course. 		

ENG EC 573: Solar Energy Systems
           			This course is designed for first year graduate and senior undergraduate students from engineering disciplines.  It is intended to educate students in the design and applications of solar energy technology.  It will focus on fundamentals of solar energy conversion, solar cells, optical engineering, photoelectrochemical cells, thermoelectric generators, and energy storage and distribution systems.  The course covers solar energy insolation and global energy needs, current trends in photovoltaic energy engineering, solar cell materials science, design and installation of solar panels for residential and industrial applications and connections to the national grid and cost analysis of the overall system.  In addition, basic manufacturing processes for the production of solar panels, environmental impacts, and the related system engineering aspects will be included to provide a comprehensive state-of-the-art approach to solar energy utilization.  Meets with ENG MS573; students may not take credit for both. 4 cr.		

ENG EC 574: Physics of Semiconductor Materials
           			This course teaches the relevant notions of quantum mechanics and solid state physics necessary to understand the operation and the design of modern semiconductor devices.  Specifically,  this course  focuses on the engineering aspects of solid state physics that are important to study the electrical and optical properties of semiconductor materials and devices. Particular emphasis is placed on the analysis of the electronic structure of semiconductor bulk systems and low-dimensional structures, the study of the carrier transport properties and the calculation of the optical response that are relevant to the design and optimization of electronics and photonics semiconductor devices. The students will learn to apply the quantum mechanical formalism to the solution of  basic engineering device problems (quantum wells, wires, and dots, 2D electron gas)  and to perform numerical calculation on more complex systems (band structure calculation of bulk and low dimensional systems). 		

ENG EC 575: Semiconductor Devices
           			Fundamentals of carrier generation, transport, recombination, and storage in semiconductors. Physical principles of operation of the PN junction, metal-semiconductor contact, bipolar junction transistor, MOS capacitor, MOSFET (Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor), JFET (Junction Field Effect Transistor), and bipolar junction transistor. Develops physical principles and models that are useful in the analysis and design of integrated circuits. 		

ENG EC 577: Electronic Optical and Magnetic Properties of Materials
           			This course in intended to develop an in depth knowledge of solid state concepts that are important for students in the areas of material science and  electrical engineering. Specifically,  this course  focuses on the study of different apsect of solid state physics necessary to study technologically relevant crytalline and amorphous systems.  Particular enphasis is placed on the study of the crystal structure, crystal diffraction and the related techniques used as diagnostic tools; the electronic, thermal, optical and magnetic properties of material systems important for electronics and photonics device applications. Furthermore the course will also consider the theory of superconductivity, the chemistry aspcts of solid state materials and will provide an introduction to solid state biophysics. This course complements EC 574 (Physics of semiconductor material) and EC575 (semiconductor devices) with its focus on technologically relevant structural, optical, thermal and magnetic material properties. Meets with ENG MS 577. Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG EC 578: Fabrication Technology for Integrated Circuits
           			Presentation of fabrication procedures for silicon-integrated circuits: physical properties of bulk and epitaxially grown silicon; silicon processing, such as oxidation, diffusion, epitaxy, deposition, and ion implantation; silicon crystallography, anisotropic etching, photolithography, piezorestivity, and chemical and plasma techniques. The limitations these processes impose on the design of bipolar and MOS devices and integrated circuits are discussed. Design of an integrated circuit and the required processing. Includes lab. 4 cr. 		

ENG EC 579: Nano/microelectronic Device Technology
           			Physical processes and manufacturing strategies for the fabrication and  manufacture of microelectronic devices. Processing and device aspects  instrumental in silicon, including the fabrication of doping distributions,  etching, photolithography, interconnect construction, and packaging. Future  directions and connections to novel devices, MEMS, photonics, and nanoscale  structures will be discussed. Emphasis will be on "designing for  manufacturability." The overall integration with methods and tools employed by  device and circuit designers will be covered. Same as ENGME579. Students may not  receive credit for both. 4 cr. either sem. 		

           			Anatomy of an operational amplifier using chip design techniques. Applications of op amps in wave-shaping circuits, active filters including capacitive switching. Analog multiplexing and data acquisition circuits, A/D, D/A, S/H are examined. Frequency selective circuits and interface circuits such as optocouplers are analyzed. 4 cr. 		

ENG EC 582: RF/Analog IC Design Fundamentals
           			Fundamentals related to CMOS and SiGe BICMOS analog circuits for RF applications. Topics include low noise amplifiers, oscillators, mixers, demodulators, phase-locked loop, switched capacitor circuits, A/D and D/A converters, low power design, RF design techniques, and mixed-signal circuitry typical of modern telecommunications technology. VLSI laboratory exercises involving the design, layout, and simulation of RF/analog integrated circuits using Cadence SpectreRF CAD software tools. Real-world examples in advanced mixed-signal integrated circuit applications, such as a single chip radio. 		

ENG EC 583: Power Electronics for Energy systems
           			Introduction to power electronics with emphasis on conversion circuits for energy systems. DC to DC conversion using buck, boost, and buck-boost converters. DC to AC inverters. Connection to power grid.  Properties of MOS transistors used for high power conversion applications. Properties of magnetic elements and interactions with power circuits.  Applications of power electronic circuits to energy systems, including solar cell installations, wave and wind power, and electric vehicles. High frequency inductors and transformers. 		

ENG EC 591: Photonics Lab I
	Introduction to optical measurements. Laser safety issues. Laboratory experiments: introduction to lasers and optical alignment; interference; diffraction and Fourier optics; polarization components; fiber optics; optical communications; beam optics; longitudinal laser modes. Optical simulation software tools.		

ENG EC 700: Advanced Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering
           			Advanced topics of current interest in electrical and computer engineering.  		

ENG EC 701: Optimal and Robust Control
           			This course is aimed at an introduction (with rigorous treatment) to the fundamentals of optimal and robust control.  It will be divided roughly into two parts.  The first will cover aspects of robust control including model reduction, H_2 and H_ infinity control, and feedback control of uncertain systems.  The second will delve into optimal control including topics such as the linear quadratic regulator, the calculus of variations, the maximum principle, and the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation. Meets with ENG ME701 and ENG SE 701; only one of these courses may be taken both for credit. 		

ENG EC 702: Recursive Estimation and Optimal Filtering
           			State-space theory of dynamic estimation in discrete and continuous time. Linear state-space models driven by white noise, Kalman filtering and its properties, optimal smoothing, non-linear filtering, extended and second-order Kalman filters, and sequential detection. Applications to radar, sonar, and optimal multitarget tracking, parameter identification. 		

ENG EC 707: Radar Remote Sensing
           			Principles of radar systems and radar signal analysis with emphasis on environmental remote sensing. Topics include antenna fundamentals, wave propagation/scattering in various media, the radar equation, radar cross-section, target characteristics, ambiguity function, radar system components, pulse compression techniques, and aperture synthesis. Highlighted systems include ground-penetrating radars, synthetic aperture radar (SAR), weather radars, and incoherent scatter radars, and LIDAR. 		

ENG EC 710: Dynamic Programming and Stochastic Control
           			Introduction to sequential decision making via dynamic programming. The principle of optimality as a unified approach to optimal control of dynamic systems and Markovian decision problems. Applications from control theory and operation research include linear-quadratic problems, the discrete Kalman Filter, inventory control, network, investment, and resource allocation models. Adaptive control and numerical solutions through successive approximation and policy iteration, suboptimal control, and neural network applications involving functional approximations and learning. Meets with ENGME710 and ENGSE710. Students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG EC 712: Advanced Software for Computer Engineers
           			Explores the design of software using state-of-the-art technologies; emphasis on distributed systems, Web-based applications, and the use of the latest application frameworks; project-oriented course.  		

ENG EC 713: Parallel Computer Architecture
           			Problems in parallel processing, how they are addressed by current parallel computers, and design of future systems. Topics include characteristics of parallel applications; parallel system support; cache coherency protocols; network interfaces; switch and interconnection network design; scalable systems; and hardware-software tradeoffs. Examples of both small-scale and large-scale parallel systems, including web servers, clusters of networked PCs, MPPs, and vector supercomputers. 		

ENG EC 715: Wireless Communications
           			Design and analysis of robust wireless communication systems. Radio-channel modeling: propagation, path loss, multipath, and fading. Cellular system design. Coding, diversity, and equalization. Multi-antenna channels, Multicarrier modulations, Spread-spectrum and CDMA techniques. Multiuser scheduling. Case studies. Multiple-access, mobility, and networking issues. 		

ENG EC 716: Advanced Digital Signal Processing
           			Selected topics from time-frequency distributions, parametric signal modeling, high-resolution spectral estimation, multi-rate signal processing, multidimensional signal processing, adaptive signal processing, alternative algorithms for DFT computation, symbolic and knowledge based signal processing. Application examples chosen from speech, image, communication, and biomedical applications. 		

ENG EC 717: Image Reconstruction and Restoration
           			Principles and methods of reconstructing images and estimating multidimensional fields from indirect and noisy data; general deterministic (variational) and stochastic (Bayesian) techniques of regularizing ill-posed inverse problems; relationship of problem structure (data and models) to computational efficiency; impact of typically large image processing problems on viability of solution methods; problems in imaging and computational vision including tomography and surface reconstruction. Computer assignments. 		

ENG EC 719: Statistical Pattern Recognition
           			The statistical theory of pattern recognition, including both parametric and nonparametric approaches to classification. Covers classification with likelihood functions and general discriminant function, density estimation, supervised and unsupervised learning, decision trees, feature reduction, performance estimation, and classification using sequential and contextual information, including Markov and hidden Markov models. A project involving computer implementation of a pattern recognition algorithm is required. 		

ENG EC 720: Digital Video Processing
           			Review of sampling/filtering in multiple dimensions, human visual system, fundamentals of information theory. Motion analysis: detection, estimation, segmentation, tracking. Image sequence segmentation. Spectral analysis of image sequences. Video enhancement: noise reduction, super-resolution. Video compression: transformation, quantization, entropy coding, error resilience. Video compression standards (H.26X and MPEG families). Future trends in image sequence compression and analysis. Homework and project will require MATLAB programming. 		

ENG EC 724: Advanced Optimization Theory and Methods
           			Introduces advanced optimization techniques. Emphasis on nonlinear optimization and recent developments in the field. Topics include: unconstrained optimization methods such as gradient, conjugate direction, Newton and quasi-Newton methods; constrained optimization methods such as gradient projection, feasible directions, barrier and interior point methods; duality theory and methods; convex duality; and introduction to other advanced topics such as semi-definite programming, incremental gradient methods and stochastic approximation algorithms. Applications drawn from control, production and capacity planning, resource allocation, communication and neural network problems. Meets with ENGME724 and ENGSE724.  Students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG EC 725: Queueing Systems
           			Performance modeling using queueing networks analysis of product form and nonproduct form networks, numerical methods for performance evaluation, approximate models of queueing systems, optimal design and control of queueing networks. Applications from manufacturing systems, computer systems, and communication networks. Meets with ENGME725 and ENGSE725. Students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG EC 727: Advanced Coding Theory
           			Advanced topics in the theory of error-correcting codes, with an emphasis on decoding algorithms. Various codes and corresponding decoding algorithms: cyclic (BCH, Reed-Solomon), Reed-Muller, Golay, algebraic-geometry (Goppa, Hermitian), and iteratively-decoded codes (turbo and LDPC), graph-based decoding; trellis construction and decoding (Viterbi algorithm), belief propagation (sum-product, min-sum). Various applications: cryptography, data synchronization, and tiling. 		

ENG EC 730: Information-Theoretical Design of Algorithms
	Recently developed information-theoretical approach to the analysis and design of computer algorithms. Previous knowledge of information theory or the theory of algorithms is not required, though desirable. Main topics include the complexity of algorithms; P, E, NP, and NP?hard problems; basic concepts of information theory, optimal coding; information-theoretical approach to sorting, order statistics, binary search, decision trees, hashing, minimization of Boolean functions, test, and similar problems; and design of efficient computer algorithms. 		

	Statistical description of plasmas as many-body systems. Liouville equation. Distribution functions. Transport phenomena in plasmas. Fokker-Planck theory. Applications for MHD power generation, sputtering, plasma deposition, ambipolar diffusion in machine plasmas. Kinetic equations for plasma. Maxwell-Vlasov theory of plasma waves and plasma instability. Applications to microwave devices, particle beams, space and laboratory plasmas. Fluctuations, correlations, and plasma radiation. 		

ENG EC 732: Combinatorial Optimization and Graph Algorithms
           			Design data structures and efficient algorithms for priority queues, minimum spanning trees, searching in graphs, strongly connected components, shortest paths, maximum matching, and maximum network flow.  Some discussion of intractable problems and distributed network algorithms. Meets with ENGSE732.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG EC 733: Discrete Event and Hybrid Systems
           			Review of system theory fundamentals distinguishing between time-driven and event-driven dynamics. Modeling of Discrete Event and Hybrid Systems: Automata, Hybrid Automata, Petri Nets, basic queueing models, and stochastic flow models. Monte Carlo computer simulation: basic structure and output analysis. Analysis, control and optimization techniques based on Markov Decision Process theory with applications to scheduling, resource allocation and games of chance. Perturbation Analysis and Rapid Learning methods with applications to communication networks, manufacturing systems, and command-control. Meets with ENGME733 and ENGSE733. Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG EC 734: Hybrid Systems
           			The course offers a detailed introduction to hybrid systems, which are dynamical systems combining continuous dynamics (modeled by differential equations) with discrete dynamics (modeled by automata). The covered topics include modeling, simulation, stability analysis, verification, and control of such systems. The course contains several applications from both natural and manmade environments, ranging from gene networks in biology, to networked embedded systems in avionics and automotive controls, and to motion planning and control in robotics. Same as ENG ME 734 and ENG SE 734. Students may receive credit for one. 		

ENG EC 741: Randomized Network Algorithms
           			Probabilistic techniques and paradigms in the design and evaluation of network algorithms.  Review of basic concepts in probability, graph theory, and algorithms.  Tail inequalities and Chernoff bounds.  Ball and bins and random graph models.  Markov chains and random walks.  The probabilistic method.  Monte Carlo methods.  Introduction to martingales, networking applications: distributed content storage and look-up in P2P networks, IP traceback, fountain codes, universal hash functions, packet routing. Same as SE 741. Students may not receive credit for both.  4 cr.		

ENG EC 744: Mobile Ad Hoc Networking and Computing
           			Mobile routers, wireless interconnectivity, and an unpredictably changing topology characterize a Mobile Ad hoc Network (MANET). Covers MANET-specific topics related to resource discovery, handoff, MAC-layer, security, routing, mobility and location management, self-organization, caching, and practical implementations. 		

ENG EC 745: Nanomedicine
			

ENG EC 749: Interconnection Networks fo Multicomputers
           			Interconnection network topologies. Static and dynamic networks. Routing in multicomputer networks. Network flow control. Deadlocks in routing. Multicast and broadcast. Fault-tolerance and reliability of interconnection networks. Modules for realization (nodes and routers). Performance metrics for different topologies. 		

ENG EC 752: Theory of Computer Hardware Testing
           			At the present time cost of testing is much higher than cost of design and manufacturing for computer systems. The course will contain a unified presentation of approaches for testing and diagnosis of computer hardware. Gate-level testing, functional testing, testing and diagnosis of microprocessors, memory testing, and random testing. Design for testability. Data compression of test responses. Architectures for built-in self-testing and self-diagnosis. Self-error-detection and self-error-correction in processors and memories. 		

ENG EC 753: Fault-Tolerant Computing
           			This course will cover techniques for design of fault-tolerant digital devices with on-line self-error-detection and self-error-correction. Fault-tolerant PLAs, gate arrays, and computer memories. Fault-tolerant computer architectures. Application of error-detecting and error-correcting codes for design of reliable devices with self-error detection/correction. Design of self-checking checkers. Combining on-line and off-line error-detecting techniques. Reliability analysis of fault-tolerant devices. Self-error detection/correction for multiprocessors. 		

ENG EC 757: Advanced Microprocessor Design
           			This project course provides a varied and practical view of the development cycle of an embedded system design. Topics include hardware and software design methodologies, use of CAD and simulation tools, assemblers, compilers, debuggers, and programmers. Microprocessor architectures from Motorola, Intel, TI, and ARM will be discussed and evaluated. Computer interfaces such as I2C, CAN, USB, PCI, Ethernet, and Bluetooth will be discussed in detail. Students will gain a clear understanding of the design cycle from project definition and proposal to PCB layout and manufacturing. A course design project is required. 		

ENG EC 760: Advanced Topics in Photonics
	This is an advanced special topics course in photonics; topics will vary from year to year. It will be offered in the spring term when there is no other 700-level course in the photonics area. Students who take the course on two different topics would be able to receive credit for it twice. Some of these offerings may become a permanent part of the curriculum in the future.  		

ENG EC 762: Quantum Optics
           			Review of the postulates of quantum mechanics. Quantization of the electromagnetic field. Coherent, thermal, squeezed, and entangled states, and their associated photon statistics. Interaction of light with matter. Spontaneous and stimulated transitions. Theory of optical detection. Quantum theory of the laser. Interaction of light with two-level atoms, including photon echo and self-induced transparency. Quantum theory of parametric interactions. 		

ENG EC 763: Nonlinear and Ultrafast Optics
           			Tensor theory of linear anisotropic optical media. Second- and third-order nonlinear optics. Three-wave mixing and parametric interaction devices, including second-harmonic generation and parametric amplifiers and oscillators. Four-wave mixing and phase conjugation optics. Electro-optics and photo-refractive optics. Generation, compression, and detection of ultra short optical pulses. Femtosecond optics. Pulse propagation in dispersive linear media. Optical solitons.  		

ENG EC 764: Optical Measurement
           			The course begins with a review of classical electromagnetic radiation theory and properties of light such as polarization and coherence. In the first part of the course attention will be given to applications of interference and polarization effects used in different passive application areas such as resonators (e.g. sensors, switching and detection), visibility and interferometry measurements and the usage both of highly coherent and incoherent light respectively. The second part of the course will consider light-matter interactions in dispersive media and compare classical, semi-classical, and quantum mechanical models with focus on the two-level system.  The analysis will be applied to active spectroscopy measurements such as absorption and transmission, Photoluminescence, Raman and IR in time and frequency domain measurements. The emphasis will be on extracting material morphology and material properties, illustrated with classical and current journal papers.  Finally, we will also discuss relevant tools such as spectrometers and detectors.   		

ENG EC 765: Biomedical Optics and Biophotonics
	This course surveys the applications of optical science and engineering to a variety of biomedical problems, with emphasis on optical and photonics technologies that enable real, minimally-invasive clinical applications. The course teaches only those aspects of biology itself that are necessary to understand the purpose of the application. The first weeks introduce the optical properties of tissue, and following lectures cover a range of topics in three general areas: 1) Optical spectroscopy applied to diagnosis of cancer and other tissue diseases; 2) Photon migration and optical imaging of subsurface structures in tissue; and 3) Laser-tissue interactions and other applications of light for therapeutic purposes. In addition to formal lectures, recent publications from the literature will be selected as illustrative of various topical areas, and for each publication one student will be assigned to prepare an informal presentation (with overhead slides or PowerPoint) reviewing for the class the underlying principles of that paper and outlining the research results. Same as ENGBE765; students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG EC 770: Guided-wave Optoelectronics
           			Discussion of physics and engineering aspects of integrated optics and optoelectronic devices. Semiconductor waveguides, lasers, and photodetectors. Layered semiconductor structures, quantum wells, and superlattices. QW detectors, emitters, and modulators. OEICs. Photonic switching. 		

ENG EC 771: Physics of Compound Semiconductor Devices
           			Physics of present-day compound devices, and emerging devices based on quantum mechanical phenomena. MESFETs, Transferred Electron Devices, avalanche diodes, photodetectors, and light emitters. Quantum mechanical devices based on low dimensionality confinement through the formation of heterojunctions, quantum wells, and superlattices. High electron mobility transistors, resonant tunneling diodes, quantum detectors, and lasers. Materials growth and characterization are integral to the course. 		

ENG EC 772: VLSI Graduate Design Project
           			EC772 is a project-oriented course that demonstrates the use of high-level   design techniques.  There are lectures, milestone presentations, and a final   presentation.  The lectures, interleaved with tutorials showing the utilization   of Verilog, the Cadence RTL compiler, and Silicon Encounter, define the general   design flow.  Additional design issues are also elaborated in the form of   classroom lectures, which take up a fraction of the course class time. Student   groups of 2-5 define their own projects, which are scrutinized by the entire   class as to difficulty and possibility of success.   Milestones entail both oral   (presented in class times) and written components.  Typically, by the time of   the final presentation, the milestone documents can be simply, with test results   (not necessarily simple), are combined to demonstrate the veracity of the final   chip design.  Pay special attention to prerequisites.   Verilog is at the heart   of almost everything.  EC311 and EC413 or equivalent courses can provide the   minimal Verilog proficiency for LEAP students.  These courses do not qualify for   grad student credit, so EC551 (Verilog: may be co-req) or equivalent Verilog  skill is  necessary.   EC571 VLSI Design or strong equivalent proficiency in  digital  circuits at the transistor level is also essential.  		

ENG EC 773: Advanced Optical Microscopy and Biological Imaging
		This course will present a rigorous and detailed overview of the theory of optical microscopy starting from basic notions in light propagation and covering advanced concepts in imaging theory such as Fourier optics and partial coherence. Topics will include basic geometric optics, photometry, diffraction, optical transfer functions, phase contrast microscopy, 3D imaging theory, basic scattering and fluorescence theory, imaging in turbid media, confocal microscopy, optical coherence tomography (OCT), holographic microscopy, fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS), fluorescence resonant energy transfer (FRET), and nonlinear-optics based techniques such as two-photon excited fluorescence (TPEF) and second-harmonic generation (SHG) microscopy. Biological applications such as calcium and membrane-potential imaging will be discussed. A background in optics is preferable. A background in signals and analysis is indispensable. In particular, the student should be comfortable with Fourier transforms, complex analysis, and transfer functions. Meets with ENGBE773.  Students may not receive credit for both.		

           			Optical properties of semiconductors: interband optical transitions; excitons.  Low-dimensional structures: quantum wells, superlattices, quantum wires, quantum dots, and their optical properties; intersubband transitions.  Lasers: double-heterojunction, quantum-well, quantum-dot, and quantum-cascade lasers; high-speed laser dynamics.  Electro-optical properties of bulk and low-dimensional semiconductors; electroabsorption modulators.  Detectors: photoconductors and photodiodes; quantum-well infrared photodetectors. Same as ENG MS 774. Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG EC 777: Nanostructure Optics
           			Discussion of the fundamental physical aspects and device applications of optical fields confined and generated in nanoscale environments. Review of classical electrodynamics and angular spectrum representation of optical fields, classical and quantum models for light-matter interaction, light emission from semiconductor quantum dots and wires, surface-plasmon polaritons and sub-wavelength light transport/localization in metal nanostructures, slot waveguide structures, surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) and SERS-based sensors, light scattering in complex photonic structures such as: metal-dielectric photonic crystals, fractal structrures, random lasers.		

ENG EC 782: RF/Analog IC Design - Advanced Applications
           			Selected topics in advanced RF/Analog integrated circuit design based on high frequency BiCMOS technology.  Topics to be covered include oversampling (Sigma Delta) A/D converters, RF phase-locked loops, low voltage RF frequency synthesizers, printed circuit board design for RF applications, antennas and signal propagation, PCB filters, and other mixed-signal topics.  The course will utilize selected readings from the technical literature, as well as a number of RF measurement and RF design lab assignments.		

ENG EC 892: Seminar: Electro-Physics
	A weekly two-hour seminar on recent research topics in the area of electro-physics, including solid state materials and devices, photonics, electromagnetics, computers in physics, and other related areas. Speakers include faculty and graduate students in the area. 		

ENG EC 900: Research
	By petition only. Research carried out under the guidance of a faculty member. Variable cr.		

ENG EC 901: Thesis
	By petition only. Preparation of an original MS thesis carried out under the guidance of a faculty member. Variable cr.		

ENG EC 902: MS Project
	MS research project under the supervision of an ECE faculty member. Student must    participate in end-of-semester ECE Research Symposium. Final report required.    Student must submit proposal for ECE Graduate committee approval prior to the    semester in which the MS research project is to be carried out. Variable cr.		

ENG EC 951: Independent Study
	By petition only. Under faculty supervision, graduate students may study subjects not covered in a regularly scheduled course. A final report and/or written examination is required. Variable cr.		

ENG EC 952: Directed Group Project
	A semester long engineering project with significant graduate-level design and    implementation elements is carried out by a team of 1 to 4 graduate students    under the supervision of an ECE faculty member. Required deliverables include a    written proposal, an end-of-semester project report, and an end-of-semester    oral/poster presentation. The project proposal must be approved by the faculty    supervisor before project team members may register for this course. Variable  cr.		

ENG EC 991: Dissertation
	By petition only. Preparation of an original PhD dissertation carried out under the guidance of a faculty member. Variable cr.		

ENG EK 100: Freshman Advising Seminar
	This first-year experience course introduces students to Boston University,the College of Engineering, and the field of engineering. Students meet with faculty and student advisors and attend lectures to broaden their knowledge of the inner workings of the College and to gain a better understanding of engineering as a discipline and the ethical responsibilities of an engineer. Includes academic policies and special programs along with support services.		

ENG EK 102: Introduction to Linear Algebra for Engineers
           			Systems of linear equations and matrices. Vector spaces and linear transformation using matrix notation, determinants, and eigenvalues and eigenvectors. Examples drawn from engineering applications. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS MA 142 or MA 242.		

ENG EK 127: Engineering Computation
	An introduction to engineering problem solving using a modern computational environment. Basic procedural programming concepts include input/output, branching, looping, functions, file input/output, and data structures such as arrays and structures. An introduction to basic linear algebra concepts such as matrix operations and solving sets of equations. Introduction to numerical methods, for example least squares solutions and their use for curve fitting. Programming projects provided by all College of Engineering departments will reinforce these concepts and introduce engineering freshmen to the various disciplines.		

ENG EK 128: EK128 Engineering Computation++
	An introduction to engineering problem solving, programming, and design for engineering students with strong interest or preparation in computer programming. All topics will be "learned by doing" through studio classes and individual and team projects. Basic procedural programming concepts (such as variables, expressions, input/output, branching, looping, functions, file input/output, and data structures). Introduction to computational environments, linear algeba and numerical methods. Types of development environments and programming language categories:  glue, scripting, web, object-oriented, system and assembly languages.  Students will form design teams and will design, build, test, and demonstrate a final project. Students may receive credit for either ENG EK 127 or ENG EK 128 but not both.		

ENG EK 131: Introduction to Engineering
	Introduction to engineering analysis and/or design through a sequence of two modules or minicourses chosen from a selection of modules offered by participating engineering faculty. Each module presents students with key concepts and techniques relevant to an applied area of engineering. Limited to freshmen and sophomores (students with less than 64 credits toward degree requirements). 2 cr, either sem. 		

ENG EK 132: Introduction to Engineering
	Introduction to engineering analysis and/or design through a sequence of two modules or minicourses chosen from a selection of modules offered by participating engineering faculty. Each module presents students with key concepts and techniques relevant to an applied area of engineering. Limited to freshmen and sophomores (students with less than 64 credits toward degree requirements). 2 cr, either sem.  		

ENG EK 156: Design and Manufacture
	Introduction to design and processing steps required in manufacturing. Specialized project involving the design, scheduling, budgeting, and building a project selected by the student with the consent of the instructor. Includes lab.		

ENG EK 210: Introduction to Engineering Design
	A two credit introductory course to the principles of engineering  design,  intended to give second-year undergraduates a basic understanding of the   process of converting a product from concept through design and deployment.    Students will work in multi-disciplinary teams with time and budget constraints   on externally sponsored design projects.  Web-based lectures will cover topics   concurrent with specific phases of the projects.  The course will culminate in a   "Design Competition".  		

ENG EK 225: Introduction to Energy Conversion and Environmental Engineering
	This class examines the existing state of the world's energy use and its impact  on society and the planet. A quantitative framework is provided in order to  evaluate current and potential technologies. Individual energy generation,  conversion, and end use options are evaluated within this framework. Both  renewable energy generation technologies: wind, solar, biomass, and hydro, and  conventional sources such as nuclear and fossil fuels will be compared. Energy  conversion is discussed with regards to batteries and fuel cells, liquid bio- fuels, and grid level storage systems. These technologies are then put into a  social context and their use around the world is discussed. Evaluations are  based on homework and class discussions, midterms, and a final.  4 cr. Cannot be  used for credit towards an engineering degree.		

ENG EK 280: Technology, Society and Policy
	Examination of technology as a fundamental element of and driving force in our culture. Balanced understanding of the promises, consequences, and dilemmas brought about by specific technologies. Opportunity to improve critical thinking abilities and to broaden perspectives and sense of responsibility of new professionals as they become involved in decisions related to technology. ENG EK 280 (for engineering students) meets with CAS SO 277 (for non-engineering students) and fulfills 4 credit hours of social science elective as a sociology course. The course cannot be used as a core elective. 		

		Fundamental statics of particles, rigid bodies, trusses, frames, and virtual work.  Distributed forces, uni-axial stress and strain, shear and bending moment  diagrams. Application of vector analysis and introduction to engineering design.  Includes design project.		

ENG EK 307: Electric Circuits
	Introduction to electric circuit analysis and design; voltage, current, and power, circuit laws and theorems; element I-V curves, linear and nonlinear circuit concepts; operational amplifier circuits; transient response of capacitor and inductor circuits, sinusoidal-steady-state response, frequency response, transfer functions; Includes design-oriented laboratory. 4cr.		

ENG EK 335: Introduction to Environmental Engineering
	This course provides a technical introduction to a wide range of environmental engineering topics to quantitatively understand and analyze environmental problems. Topics covered include mass and energy balance for analyzing environmental engineering concepts, population growth, models for resource consumption and risk analysis, energy systems, air pollution and prevention strategies, water quality assessment and supply issues, drinking and waste water treatment, solid waste treatment and management strategies, and resource recovery and recycling. Relevant existing laws and regulations are also reviewed in the context of the topics covered. 4 cr.		

ENG EK 408: Introduction to Clean energy Generation and Storage Technologies
           			This course covers a wide variety of modern energy generation and storage technologies. The engineering principles that govern thermomechanical, thermoelectric,photvotaic and elctrochemical energy conversion processes will be discussed along with the challenges of hydrogen storage and hybrid batteries. The consequences of using renewable energy resources such as solar, hydrogen, biomass, geothermal, hydro, and wind versus  non-renewable fossil fuels and nuclear resources will also be covered.		

ENG EK 409: Engineering Economy
           			Analysis of engineering alternatives for replacement. Present worth analysis. Cost control,budgeting, and indirect costs and their allocation. Company startups, stock ownership, and annual reports. Cost optimization, economic life, taxes,inflation, inventories, and depreciation accounting. Contract negotiations,professional ethics, and cost proposal preparation. Evaluation of public projects. 		

ENG EK 424: Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics
           			Thermodynamic systems. Heat,temperature, and pressure. State variables and equations of state. First and second laws of thermodynamics. Kinetic theory. Entropy. Statistical Thermodynamics. Partition function. Thermodynamic potentials. Equilibrium. Chemical reactions. Phase transitions. Colligative Properties. electrochemical reactions. Applications to problems of biomedical interest will be emphasized.4 cr.		

ENG EK 497: Undergraduate Part-Time Co-op Experience
           			Students work part-time, as defined by their employing company, while registering for 8-11 credits. Registration for 12 or more credits requires the written approval of the director. Students registered in ENG EK 497E are assessed a fee upon placement. 		

ENG EK 498: Undergraduate Co-op Experience
           			Students register only upon receiving a cooperative education position. The Cooperative Education Program helps students to integrate classroom theory with actual engineering experience. Under professional supervision, students learn firsthand about the engineering environment by working in a paid, full-time position in a medical or research facility, private business, industry, or governmental agency. Through seminars on topics such as self-assessment, identification of work skills, rsum writing, interview skills, and understanding the corporate world, students learn the broad career skills required to obtain co-op and permanent employment. 		

ENG EK 500: Probability with Statistical Applications
           			A first course in probability, random processes, and statistics for students with a level of mathematical maturity and experience comparable to that normally found in entering graduate students. Sample spaces, probability measures, random variables, expectation, applications of transform methods, stochastic convergence and limit theorems, second order statistics, introduction to random processes, estimation, filtering, and elementary hypothesis testing. May not be taken for credit in addition to ENG EC 381 or ENG ME 308. 4 cr		

ENG EK 501: Mathematical Methods I: Linear Algebra and Complex Analysis
	Introduction to basic applied mathematics for science and engineering, emphasizing practical methods and unifying geometrical concepts. Topics include linear algebra for real and complex matrices. Quadratic forms,  Lagrange multipliers and elementary properties of the rotation group. Vector differential and integral calculus. Complex function theory, singularities and multi-valued functions, contour integration and series expansions. Fourier and Laplace transforms. Elementary methods for solving ordinary linear differential and systems of differential equations with applications to electrical circuits and mechanical structures. 		

ENG EK 546: Assessment of Sustainable Energy Technologies
           			Critical to launching new energy ventures and implementing new energy policies is developing a broad understanding of how technically feasible the proposed project/technology in meeting the economic, environmental, and end-use requirements.  This course will provide students with the background needed to assess the potential for energy efficiency and effectiveness of different technologies, the related economics, as well as identify the key technical risks in emerging technologies.  Examples will be drawn from a variety of emerging technologies such as solar photovoltaics, fuel cells, advanced transportation technology, as well as conservation options such as motors, cogeneration, building automation and HVAC.  This course will also address evaluating the life cycle implications of emerging technologies, including manufacturing issues, end-of-life, as well as estimating performance. 4cr. 2nd sem.		

ENG EK 697: Graduate Part-time Engineering Practice
		Students register upon receiving an internship position. The Engineering Practice   degree option helps students to integrate classroom theory with actual engineering   experience. Under professional supervision, students acquire firsthand knowledge   about the engineering environment by working in a paid, part-time position, while   registering for 4-11 credits. 		

ENG EK 698: Graduate Engineering Practice
		Students register upon receiving an internship position. The Engineering Practice   degree option helps students to integrate classroom theory with actual engineering   experience. Under professional supervision, students acquire firsthand knowledge   about the engineering environment by working in a paid, full-time position.		

ENG EK 720: Biophotonic System Design and Prototyping
           			Theory and practice of biophotonic instrument design with application to biomedical devices. Students will work on problems introduced and defined by physicians and clinical researchers, to develop new medical products from concept to prototype design and development.   Students in physics, chemistry, and engineering will learn fundamentals of biophotonics sensors and systems development and prototyping for three end uses:  in vivo platforms, exploring innovative techniques for sub-cellular imaging of biomolecular structure and interactions in living tissue; resonant and interferometric biosensors, exploring resonance-enhanced photonic pathogen detection or disease diagnosis with high sensitivity and specificity; and point-of-care diagnosis, exploring rapid, low-cost spectroscopic and imaging techniques that will add to our understanding biological behavior at the molecular level and will lead to important new tools for biomedicine, particularly in areas where there are currently few means of diagnosis.   The course provides foundational instruction with respect to core photonic and biomedical design principles, and a case-study based instructional approach to technology transfer and prototyping.  Semester-long projects conducted by interdisciplinary teams involve  design and prototyping based on problems introduced by practitioners and researchers identified by a regional health care consortium, CIMIT.  4 cr. 		

ENG EK 731: Bench-to-Bedside: Translating Biomedical Innovation from the Laboratory to the  Marketplace
	The subject of the course is the translation of medical technologies into new  products and services for the healthcare system. The course begins with a  rigorous study of intellectual property, licensing and the core aspects of  planning, creating, funding and building new entrepreneurial ventures. Concepts  and tools are presented for assessing new technologies and their potential to be  the basis for a new entrepreneurial venture. Comparisons will be made of how  technologies can be sourced and commercialized out of three very different  environments: universities, national laboratories and corporate laboratories.  Cross-disciplinary teams of students will be formed which will evaluate  translational research projects currently being developed at Boston University  and their potential for transformation into a start-up company to commercialize  the technology, providing a unique linkage between the scientific research  activities of the university and the professional schools. Each week there will  be a case study which will discuss examples of both success and failure in  technology commercialization. Some of these case studies examine Boston  University life sciences spin-out companies, and the founders and CEO?s of these  ventures will share their experiences with the class.		

ENG EK 920: Summer Research Experience
	By department approval only. Research carried out under the guidance of a faculty  member. 		

ENG ME 302: Engineering Mechanics II
           			Fundamentals of engineering dynamics. Kinetics and kinematics of rigid bodies in two and three dimensions. Newton's Laws.  Lagrangian methods.  Introduction to mechanical vibrations.  4 cr		

ENG ME 303: Fluid Mechanics
           			Properties of fluids. Fluid statics. Flow kinematics and dynamics. Dimensional analysis. Control volume approach to conservation of mass, momentum, and energy.  Analysis of fluid flow along streamline using the Bernoulli equation. Pipe flow analysis techniques. Discussion of boundary layers, and methods for estimating drag, and lift forces. Course consists of a mixture of lectures and labs. 		

ENG ME 304: Energy and Thermodynamics
		Macroscopic treatment of the fundamental concepts of thermodynamic systems. Zeroth, first, and second laws; properties of simple compressible substances; entropy; energy availability; ideal gas mixtures and psychometrics; and thermodynamic cycles. Application to engines, refrigeration systems, and energy conversion. Includes lab.  		

ENG ME 305: Mechanics of Materials
           			Introduction to stress and strain. Axial and shear loading.  Torsion of shafts and thin-walled tubes. Stress within and deflection of bending beams.  Combined loadings.  Stress and strain transformations.  Generalized Hooke's law.  Material failure theories.  Column buckling.  Includes lab and project.  4 cr. either sem. 		

           			Structure and properties of solids; crystalline structure; defect structures; atom movement and diffusion; nucleation and growth; deformation; phase diagrams; strengthening mechanisms; heat treatment; ferrous/nonferrous alloys; ceramics; polymers; composites. Includes lab. Meets with ENGMS306.  Students may not receive credit for both.  		

ENG ME 309: Structural Mechanics
           			Application of solid mechanics to structures and machine elements. Elementary elasticity. Energy principles. Matrix and finite element methods. Stability phenomena. Modes of structural failure. Introduction to FEM.  Includes design project.  		

ENG ME 310: Instrumentation and Theory of Experiments
           			Designing, assembling, and operating experiments involving mechanical measurements; analyzing experimental data. Safety considerations in the laboratory. Wind tunnel testing. Mechanical and electrical transducers for flow, pressure, temperature, velocity, strain, and force. Electric circuits for static and dynamic analog signal conditioning. Computer use for digital data acquisition and analysis; instrument control. Introduction to frequency domain analysis.  Professional standards for documenting experiments and preparing reports, including formal uncertainty analysis involving elementary statistics.  Discussion of commercial instrument development. Interpretation of experimental results. Includes lab and design project.		

ENG ME 345: Automation and Manufacturing Methods
           			 An introduction to the major concepts and practices of modern manufacturing, including production system dynamics, process development, and computer-aided design and manufacturing techniques. Topics include numerically controlled machines, robotic control, real-time process control, computer vision, statistical process control, programmable logic control, production system design, discrete event system models, and computer simulation. Strong emphasis is given on hands-on laboratory experience, with a lecture component covering fundamental concepts and supporting the laboratory exercises and projects. Includes lab. 4 cr.		

ENG ME 359: Introduction to CAD and Machine Components
           			Technical drawing in two and three dimensions will be covered in detail using advanced CAD tools. Geometrical dimensioning and tolerancing methods and specifications will be taught and applied to a variety of tasks and projects. Topics will include initial aspects of machine components and design, computer numerical control (CNC), computer aided manufacturing (CAM), and relation to machining and various manufacturing processes. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to ME 407. 2 cr.  		

ENG ME 360: Product Design
           			This course emphasizes the profitable conversion of product ideas to useful and attractive products desired by customers.  This course includes aspects of both engineering design and industrial design.  This course consists of a series of design projects of increasing complexity, including the development of an operations plan for product manufacture and delivery.  Exercises include product manufacturing considerations.  Use is made of SolidWorks CAD software.  Resources for design exercises are presented in working studio sessions.  4 cr. 		

ENG ME 366: Probability and Statistics for Mechanical Engineers
           			Principles of probability and statistics including events, Bayes' theorem, random variables, joint and marginal distributions, random sequences and series, reliability theory, estimation, and quality control.  Examples drawn from engineering applications. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CAS MA 381, ENG BE 200, or ENG EC 381.  2 cr. 		

ENG ME 403: Atmospheric Flight Mechanics and Control
           			Introduction to stability and control of atmospheric flight vehicles. Forces and moments on aircraft. Static and dynamic stability. Equations of motion. Feedback design using root locus. Flying quality standards. Longitudinal and lateral autopilots. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to ME 404. Includes design project and lab.  		

ENG ME 404: Dynamics and Control of Mechanical Systems
           			Modeling of mechanical systems. Introduction to theory of feedback and control. Performance and stability of linear systems. Design of feedback control systems. Practical applications. Includes lab. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to ME 403.  		

ENG ME 406: Dynamics of Space Vehicles
           			Orbital mechanics of particles, earth satellite trajectories. Rocket propulsion and atmospheric reentry dynamics. Gravitational and electromagnetic fields of the earth. Effects of the space environment on vehicle performance. Rigid body dynamics and vehicle attitude control. Interplanetary trajectories and mission planning. 		

ENG ME 408: Aircraft Performance and Design
           			This course covers the fundamental elements of designing and analyzing fixed wing aircraft, including general aviation aircraft, commercial transports and selected military products.  Student teams get to design an airplane from start to finish during the semester as well as compete with other teams for Best-in-Class design.  Topics covered include Initial Sizing, Wing, Fuselage and Empennage Design, Propulsion Selection, Takeoff &amp; Landing Performance, Structural Design, Stability &amp; Control and Cost Assessment.  Emphasis is put on modeling existing competitor aircraft in tandem with the students' design, which helps substantiate design choices.  The use of spreadsheets is a key learning tool for this course.		

ENG ME 419: Heat Transfer
           			Fundamentals of heat exchange processes and applications to heat exchanger design. Principles of steady and unsteady conduction. Introduction to numerical analysis. Natural and forced convection heat transfer in internal and external flows. Radiant heat exchange. Introduction to boiling and condensation heat transfer. Includes lab and design project. 		

ENG ME 420: Supply Chain Engineering
           			Emphasizes the integration of product design with the process of delivering products to customers.  Review of manufacturing processes for process automation.  Supply chain configuration and flow balancing.  Seamless introduction of new products.  Process reengineering and lean manufacturing techniques in established supply chains. Design of decision support systems. 		

ENG ME 421: Aerodynamics
           			Flow kinematics; pathlines, streamlines, streaklines, rate-of-strain, dilation, vorticity, etc. Stream function and velocity potential in two-dimensional flows. Potential flow theory with application of complex variables and conformal maps. Flow past airfoils, lifting line theory, and the Kutta-Joukowski theorem. Differential approach to fluid flow. Stress tensor in a Newtonian viscous fluid. Continuity, Euler, and Navier-Stokes equations. Introduction to turbulence. Fully-developed laminar and turbulent flows. Laminar and turbulent boundary layers. Introduction to computational fluid dynamics. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to AM 422. Includes lab and computer project. 		

ENG ME 425: Compressible Flow and Propulsion
           			 Fluid mechanics and thermodynamics of compressible fluid flow with application  to external and internal flows as found in propulsion systems. Fluid/thermal  related topics include: normal and oblique shocks, Prandtl-Meyer expansion  waves, variable area duct flow, and wave drag. Propulsion applications include  rocket nozzles, rocket engine staging, supersonic inlets, and exhaust nozzles  for airbreathing propulsion systems. Parametric cycle analysis for ramjet,  turbojet, turbofan, and turboprop engines. 4 cr. 		

ENG ME 441: Mechanical Vibration
           			One- and multi-degree-of-freedom systems. Natural frequencies and modes of  vibrations, resonance, beat phenomenon, effect of damping, applications to  practical problems, and methods to avoid excessive vibrations. Lagrange's  equations.  		

ENG ME 452: Directed Study in Mechanical Engineering
           			Under faculty supervision, students may study a subject that is relevant to mechanical engineering and is not covered in a regularly offered course. Term paper and/or written examination required at end of semester. 		

ENG ME 457: Engineering Projects in Mechanical Engineering
           			Project for seniors in mechanical engineering. Students select, develop, and complete a project and prepare a report. 		

ENG ME 460: Electro-Mechanical Systems Design
           			This course melds traditional machine component design with the design, instrumentation, and control of high precision, computer-controlled automation systems, using concrete examples drawn from the photonics, biotech, and semi-conductor industries. Topics covered include design strategy, high-precision mechanical components, sensors and measurement, servo control, design for controllability, control software development, controller hardware, as well as automated error detection and recovery. Students will work in teams, both in classroom and out-of-classroom, to integrate and apply the material covered in class to a term-long multi-part design project, using modern CAD tools, culminating in a group presentation at the end of the semester. 4 cr.		

ENG ME 461: Mechanical Engineering Capstone Experience
           			The main activity in this course is the planning, and execution of a capstone project that represents a culmination of the Mechanical Engineering program. Students work in teams on either a research or design problem in some area of Mechanical Engineering that builds upon previous coursework. Class time will be focused on weekly project meetings with faculty.  The course includes lectures on ethics, entrepreneurship, project management and other professional topics. Oral and written communications will be emphasized. 4 cr.  		

	Seminar course on a topic of current interest in aerospace and mechanical engineering. 		

ENG ME 501: Dynamic System Theory
           			Introduction to analytical concepts and examples of dynamic systems and control.  Mathematical description and state space formation of dynamic systems; modeling, controllability, and observability.  Eigenvector and transform analysis of linear systems including canonical forms.  Performance specifications.  State feedback:  pole placement and the linear quadratic regulator.  Introduction to MIMO design and system identification using computer tools and laboratory experiments. Meets with ENG EC 501 and ENG SE 501; students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG ME 502: Invention: Technology Creation, Protection, and Commercialization
           			This course provides students with the knowledge and tools necessary to create, protect, and commercialize engineering and scientific intellectual assets. Students will first make use of creativity tools to attack posed engineering problems, then turn to means for protecting their solutions. Rapidly growing areas that are affecting nearly all businesses (e.g., software and the internet) as well as "high-tech" areas including microelectronics, communications, and bioenegineereing will be emphasized. Extensive patent searches and analysis will be carried out to develop skills for quickly ascertaining the protected technical content of patents, and for recognizing what intellectual property (IP) should be and can be protected. Legal aspects for protecting creative ideas will be studied at a level appropriate for engineers to interact easily and smoothly during their technical careers with IP lawyers. Various business models for the commercialization of intellectual assets will be analyzed. Extensive class exercises and projects will explore in depth all three of these important areas of IP, with emphasis on key contributions during engineering and scientific research and development activities.  		

ENG ME 503: Kinetic Processes in Materials
           			Kinetics of mass transport, continuum and atomistic approaches, chemical diffusion; kinetics of chemical reactions, kinetics of adsorption and evaporation; nucleation and growth; solidification; spinodal decomposition; coarsening; martensitic transformations; order-disorder reactions; point defects and their relation to transport kinetics. Meets with ENGMS503; students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG ME 505: Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics
           			The laws of thermodynamics; general formulation and applications to mechanical, electromagnetic and electromechanical systems; thermodynamics of solutions, phase diagrams; thermodynamics of interfaces, adsorption; defect equilibrium in crystals; statistical thermodynamics, including ensembles, gases, crystal lattices, and phase transitions.  Same as ENGME505; students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG ME 507: Process Modeling and Control
           			An introduction to modeling and control as applied to industrial unit processes providing the basis for process development and improvement.  Major themes include an integrated treatment of modeling multi-domain physical systems (electrical, mechanical, fluid, thermal), application of classical control techniques, and system design.  Topics include modeling techniques, analysis of linear dynamics, control fundamentals in the time and frequency domain, and actuator selection and control structure design.  Examples drawn from a variety of manufacturing processes and case studies. Meets with ENGMS507.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG ME 508: Computational Methods in Materials Science
           			Introduction to computational materials science.  Multi-scale simulation methods; electronic structure, atomistic, micro-structure, continuum, and mathematical analysis methods; rate processes and rare events.  Materials defect theory; modeling of crystal defects, solid micro-structures, fluids, polymers, and bio-polymers.  Materials scaling theory: phase transition, dimensionality, and localization.  Perspectives on predictive materials design.  Same as ENGMS508; students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG ME 510: Production Systems Analysis
           			Operations research and dynamic systems methods applied in modeling, analysis, and control of production systems. Inventory analysis and control for single and multi-item systems based on deterministic and stochastic demand models. Demand forecasting. Supply chain management. Machine, flow shop and job shop scheduling, project scheduling with PERT and CPM. Production control methods: MRP, MRP-II, Just-in-Time, and Kanban. 		

ENG ME 515: Vibration of Complex Mechanical Systems
           			Introductory course in mechanical vibrations for graduate students and for undergraduate students with substantial mastery of core undergraduate subjects in mechanics and mathematics. Course includes an elementary introduction to applicable concepts in linear algebra. Potential and kinetic energy functions of single- and multi-degree-of-freedom systems. Matrix formulations of forced vibrations of linear systems. Natural frequencies, resonance, and forced vibration response. Natural modes and mode shapes. Rayleigh's principle. Rayleigh's dissipation function, transient and forced responses of damped vibrations. Random excitation of vibrations. Impedance matrix. O'Hara-Cunniff theorem, modal masses, modal analysis. Vibrations of simple continuous systems such as strings, beams, rods, and torsional shafts. This course cannot be taken for credit in addition to ENG ME 441. 		

ENG ME 516: Statistical Mechanical Concepts in Engineering
           			Statistical mechanics uses probability theory to establish a connection between the microscopic properties of individual molecules and macroscopic properties of matter, such as temperature, pressure, entropy, heat capacity and viscosity. Review of thermodynamics. Fundamentals of probability theory. Phase space dynamics. Ensembles and averages. Statistical formulation of  photons (Light), phonons (lattice vibrations in solids), electrons in a metals and classical gases. Classical transport. Introduction to non-equilibrium phenomena. 4 cr. either sem.		

ENG ME 517: Product Development
           			Dynamics of converting ideas into marketable products. Choosing products and defining their specifications to achieve competitive advantage. The product development process is decomposed and its elements are examined critically in the context of actual case studies; risk evaluation, concurrent engineering, and impact of new product decisions on the factory. A step-by-step methodology for new product development is derived. 		

ENG ME 518: Product Quality
           			Introduction to statistical methods for design, control and improvement of quality. Includes Statistical Process and Quality Control (SPC &amp; SQC) and Acceptance Sampling. Extensive coverage of Design of Experiments (DOE) with applications to designing quality into products and to process and product performance improvement. Also covers Robust Design and Taguchi's method. Introduction to modern approaches to management of quality (TQM, Six Sigma). 		

ENG ME 519: Theory of Heat Transfer
           			Analytical, numerical, and physical aspects of heat transfer phenomena, with emphasis on nondimensionalization and scaling. Mathematical treatment of steady and unsteady conduction, including finite difference methods. Forced and natural convection in internal and external flows. Thermal radiation and multimode heat transfer. Melting and solidification. Applications to aerospace heat transfer, energy systems, manufacturing, and biological heat transfer. 		

ENG ME 520: Acoustics I
           			Introduction to wave propagation and sound. General concepts such as quantitative measures of sound, plane waves, and acoustic energy density and intensity. Derivation of wave equation. Sound radiation from vibrating bodies. Basic ray-acoustic concepts: reflection, refraction, diffraction and scattering of acoustic waves. Other topics may include flow-induced sound, Helmholtz resonators, sound transmission through ducts and mufflers, room acoustics, and absorption and attenuation of sound waves in fluids. 		

ENG ME 521: Continuum Mechanics
           			The main goal of this course is to present a unified, mathematically rigorous approach to two classical branches of mechanics: the mechanics of fluids and the mechanics of solids.  Topics will include kinematics, stress analysis, balance laws (mass, momentum, and energy), the entropy inequality, and constitutive equations in the framework of Cartesian vectors and tensors. Emphasis will be placed on mechanical principles that apply to all materials by using the unifying mathematical framework of Cartesian vectors and tensors.  Illustrative examples from biology and physiology will be used to describe basic concepts in continuum mechanics. The course will end at the point from which specialized courses devoted to problems in fluid mechanics (e.g. biotransport) and solid mechanics (e.g. cellular biomechanics) could logically proceed; Same as ENGBE521. Students may not receive credit for both.  		

ENG ME 524: Skeletal Tissue Mechanics
           			The course is structured around classical topics in mechanics of materials and their application to study of the mechanical behavior of skeletal tissues, whole bones, bone-implant systems, and diarthroidal joints.  Topics include:  mechanical behavior of tissues, (anisotropy, viscoelasticity, fracture and fatigue) with emphasis on the role of the microstructure of these tissues; structural properties of whole bones and implants (composite and asymmetric bean theories); and mechanical function of joints (contact mechanics, lubrication, and wear).  Emphasis is placed on using experimental data to test and to develop theoretical models, as well as on using the knowledge gained to address common health related problems related to aging, disease, and injury.  Meets with ENGMS524 and ENGBE524. Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG ME 525: Technology Ventures
           			An introduction to the formation and management of technology-based enterprises for engineers and scientists. Modules include opportunity recognition and evaluation, gathering financial and human resources, and managing and harvesting ventures. Goals include an understanding of basic start-up finance and accounting, writing business plans, presenting venture ideas to industry experts, and venture leadership skills. Students become familiar with fundamental technical and engineering issues in a wide variety of high-tech industries, especially information technology, life sciences, biotechnology and telecommunications. Case studies, lectures, workshops, and projects are utilized. 4 cr. 		

ENG ME 526: Simul Phys Proc
           			This course description is currently under construction.		

ENG ME 527: Transport Phenomena in Materials Processing
           			Introduction to momentum, heat and mass transport phenomena occurring in various processes.  Whereas transport phenomena underlie many processes in engineering, agriculture, meteorology, physiology, biology, analytical chemistry, materials science, pharmacy and other areas, they are key to specific applications in diverse areas such as materials processing, green manufacturing of primary materials, biological membranes, fuel cell engineering, synthesis of clean fuels.  This course covers three closely related transport phenomena: momentum transfer (fluid flow), energy transfer (heat flow) and mass transfer (diffusion).  The mathematical underpinnings of all three transport phenomena are closely related and the differential equations governing them are frequently quite similar.  Since in many situations the three transport phenomena occur together, they are presented and studied together in this course. Meets with ENGMS527.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG ME 528: Biological Physics
           			This course offers an introduction to biological physics and consists of four blocks. 1)Thermodynamics and statistical physics with a particular focus on Einstein's approach. 2)Physics of (Bio) polymer networks. 3) Nano and Microfluidics and life and low Reynold numbers. 4) Interface physics and Biomembranes.		

           			Mechanics and physics of solids at the nanometer scale: introductory graduate level course for students with background in undergraduate engineering mechanics (or solid state physics) and mathematics.  Review of continuum solid mechanics fundamentals.  Introduction to dislocation theory.  Continuum elastic theory of dislocations.  Mechanics of thin films.  Review of fundamentals of solid state physics.  Electron motion in a periodic potential.  Derivative of bulk material properties from free-electron and free-atom models.  Phonons.  Introduction to atomistic computational methods. Meets with ENGMS530.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG ME 531: Phase Transformations
           			Graduate-level introduction to phase transformations; solution thermodynamics; phase diagrams; kinetics of mass transport and chemical reactions; atomistic models of diffusion; nucleation and growth; spinodal decomposition; martensitic transformations; order-disorder reactions; point defects and their relation to transport kinetics. 		

ENG ME 532: Atomic Structures and Dislocations in Materials
           			Relates mechanical behavior of crystalline materials to processes occurring at microscopic and/or atomic levels. Topics covered include structure of materials and their determination by X-ray diffraction; dislocations and their relationship to plastic deformation and strength of materials; fracture and creep. Meets with ENGMS532.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG ME 533: Energy Conversion
           			Thermodynamic and mechanical aspects of modern conventional energy conversion systems, including steam electric power plants, gas turbine andinternal combustion engines, and refrigeration systems. Combined cycle and cogeneration are also considered, as well as economic and environmental aspects of energy conversion. Includes design project. 4 cr.		

ENG ME 534: Mat Tech Microe
           			This course deals with the materials issues in microelectronics processing. Fundamental materials science concepts of bonding, electronic structure, crystal structure, defects, and phase diagrams are applied to key processing steps in microelectronics technology. Also included are single crystal growth, lithography, thermal oxidation of Si, dopant diffusion, ion implantation, thin film deposition, etching and back-end processing: as well as widely used microelectronics software such as SUPREM. 		

ENG ME 535: Green Manufacturing
           			Provides a systems view of the manufacturing process that aims to efficiently use energy, water, and raw materials to minimize air and water pollution and generation of waste per unit of the manufactured product. Specifically, the course will discuss methods to maximize yield and minimize waste effluents in processes, ways to devise treatment strategies for handling manufacturing wastes, innovative ways to decrease energy consumption in manufacturing, by-product use and product recycling, and policies that encourage green manufacturing. Meets with ENGMS535.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG ME 538: Introduction to Finite Element Methods and Analysis
           			This class serves as an introduction to linear finite element method, and its application to static and dynamic problems with an emphasis on solid mechanics. The first half of the course will use the stiffness and energy approaches to developing the finite element equations as applied to bars, beams and trusses. Lab sessions will focus on learning how to utilize commercially-relevant finite element software to find numerical solutions to problems in solid mechanics. The second half of the course will focus on developing the finite element method as one that is applicable as a general numerical method for solving ordinary and partial differential equations that arise in all areas of science and engineering, including solid and fluid mechanics, thermal systems and electrostatics.		

ENG ME 541: Classical and Non-Equilibrium Thermodynamics
           			First law and second law.  Entropy.  Extremum principles.  Gases, liquids, and solids.  Phase transition.  Solutions.  Kinetics.  Fields and internal degrees of freedom.  Non-equilibrium systems.  Radiation.  Biological systems.  Small systems.  Stability theory.  Critical phenomena.  Statistical mechanics.  4 cr. either sem. 		

ENG ME 542: Advanced Fluid Mechanics
           			Incompressible fluid flow. Review of control-volume approach to fluids engineering problems, with advanced applications. Differential analysis of fluid motion. Derivation of full Navier-Stokes, Euler, and Bernoulli equations. Unsteady Bernoulli equation. Velocity potential and its application to steady two-dimensional flows. Vorticity and vortex motion. Eulerian vs Lagrangian analysis. 		

ENG ME 543: Sustainable Power Systems: Planning, Operation and Markets
           			Breakthroughs in clean energy generation technologies and the advantage of exploiting efficiently the available work in fossil fuels will render electricity the dominant energy form in a sustainable environment future. We review the key characteristics of Electric Power Transmission and Distribution (T&amp;D) networks and the associated planning and operation requirements that ensure supply adequacy, system security and stability. Capital asset investment and operation cost minimization is discussed in a systems engineering context where the assets as well as the dynamic behavior of generators, T&amp;D networks, and loads interact. Recent developments in the formation of competitive wholesale markets at the High Voltage Transmission system level, the associated market participation and clearing rules and the market clearing optimization algorithms are presented and analyzed in terms of their effectiveness in fostering cost reflective price signals and competitive conditions that encourage optimal distributed/not-centralized investment and operating decisions. Finally, we present T&amp;D congestion and supply-demand imbalance related barriers to the widespread adoption of environmentally friendly and economically efficient technological breakthroughs, and propose a systems engineering and real-time retail-market based coordination of centralized as well as decentralized generation, storage and load management resources that is able to achieve desirable synergies and mitigate these barriers. 4 cr.   		

ENG ME 544: Networking the Physical World
           			Considers the evolution of embedded network sensing systems with the introduction of wireless network connectivity. Key themes are computing optimized for resource constrained (cost, energy, memory and storage space) applications and sensing interfaces to connect to the physical world. Studies current technology for networked embedded network sensors including evolving protocol standards. A laboratory component of the course introduces students to the unique characteristics of distributed sensor motes including programming, reliable communication, sensing modalities, calibration, and application development.  Experience with the C language is required. Meets with ENG EC544; students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG ME 545: Electrochemistry of Fuel Cells and Batteries
           			Electrochemistry of high temperature fuel cells, batteries and ceramic gas separation membranes. Types, advantages and disadvantages of fuel cells currently being developed by the power generation industry, and the electrochemical underpinnings of fuel cell operation.  Thermodynamics of fuel cells, electrode kinetics and mass transport in porous electrodes.  Measurements techniques (dc polarization, ac impedance spectroscopy and blocking electrodes) used extensively in fuel cell research and development.  Operation of batteries and ceramic gas separation membranes. Current manufacturing techniques used in fuel cell industry. Meets with ENGMS545.  Students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG ME 546: Introduction to Micro/Nanofluidics
           			This course is an introductory graduate course in mechanical engineering. It is aiming to introduce unique transport phenomena and major applications of  micro/nanofluidics to senior undergraduates and new graduate students.  Topics  include overview of micro/nanofluidics, scaling laws, intermolecular forces,  lubrication theory, surface tension and Marangoni flow, chaotic mixing,  electrowetting, electrokinetics, dielectrophoresis, chemical reaction in  confined space, micro/nano fabrication, etc.  Special emphasis will be focused  on understanding fundamental mechanism of transport phenomena at the  micro/nanoscale.  This is a 4 credit course.		

ENG ME 549: Structures and Function of the Extracellular Matrix
	This is an introductory course dealing with the detailed structure of the basic   units of the extracellular matrix including collagen, elastin, microfibrils, and   proteoglycans as well as the functional properties such as elasticity at   different scales from molecule to fibrils to organ level behavior. The   biological role of these components and their interaction with cells is also   covered. Interaction of enzymes and the matrix in the presence of mechanical   forces is discussed. Mathematical modeling is applied at various length scales   of the extracellular matrix that provides quantitative understanding of the   structure and function relationship. Special topics include how diseases affect   extracellular matrix in the lung, cartilage, and vasculature. The relevance of   the properties of native extracellular matrix for tissue engineering is also   discussed. Meets with BE 549 and MS 549. 4 cr.		

ENG ME 550: Product Supply Chain Design
           			Integrated design of systems to deliver quality products to customers.  Lean manufacturing with hard automation.  Worker empowerment with active learning.  Creation of lean supply chains with control of logistics and information.  Creating customer value in a world of excess capacity.  Industry project required. 		

ENG ME 555: Fabrication and Materials
           			This course will explore the world of microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) and  NEMS. This requires an awareness of design, fabrication, and materials issues  involved in micro/nanosystems. We will go over this through a combination of  lectures, case studies, and individual homework assignments. The course will  cover fabrication technologies, material properties, structural mechanics, basic  sensing and actuation principles, packaging, and MEMS markets and applications.  The course will emphasize the fabrication and materials of micro/nanosystems.  This is not because the other parts aren't important. Instead, it is because  with fabrication and materials expertise there is something concrete you can do  that will always help. When we exam special topics and case studies, a lot of  these other pieces will be put together.  		

ENG ME 560: Precision Machine Design and Instrumentation
           			This interdisciplinary course teaches the student how to design, instrument, and control high-precision, computer-controlled automation equipment, using concrete examples drawn from the photonics, biotech, and semi-conductor industries. Topics covered include design strategy, high-precision mechanical components, sensors and measurement, servo control, design for controllability, control software development, controller hardware, as well as automated error detection and recovery.  Students will work in teams, both in-classroom and out-of-classroom, to integrate and apply the material covered in class to a term-long multi-part design project in PTC Pro-Engineer or other comparable CAD system, culminating in a group presentation at the end of the class. 		

ENG ME 566: Advanced Engineering Mathematics
           			Introduces students of engineering to various mathematical techniques which are necessary in order to solve practical problems. Topics covered include a review of calculus methods, elements of probability and statistics, linear algebra, transform methods, difference and differential equations, numerical techniques, and mathematical techniques in optimization theory. Examples and case studies focus on applications to several engineering disciplines. The intended audience for this course is advanced seniors and entering MS engineering students who desire strengthening of their fundamental mathematical skills in preparation for advanced studies and research. 		

ENG ME 570: Robot Motion Planning
           			Provides an overview of state-of-the-art techniques for robot motion planning. The emphasis is on the algorithms. It covers topology of configuration spaces, potential functions, roadmaps, cell decompositions, sampling-based algorithms, and model checking approaches to robot motion planning and control. 		

ENG ME 579: Nano/microelectronic Device Technology
           			Physical processes and manufacturing strategies for the fabrication and manufacture of microelectronic devices.  Processing and device aspects instrumental in silicon, including the fabrication of doping distributions, etching, photolithography, interconnect construction, and packaging.  Future directions and connections to novel devices, MEMS, photonics, and nanoscale structures will be discussed.  Emphasis will be on "designing for manufacturability." The overall integration with methods and tools employed by device and circuit designers will be covered.  Same as ENG EC 579; students may not receive credit for both. 		

           			An introduction to the general theory of solid deformation; small deformation emphasized. Topics include: Cartesian tensors, indicial notation. Introduction to continuum mechanics: deformation of continuous media, deformation gradient, strain definitions. Stress, Cauchy's postulate, Cauchy and Piola-Kirchhoff stress tensors. Balance laws. Constitutive equations, strain energy and Green's postulate. Linear Elasticity: Two dimensional problems, Airy stress function, in plane loading of strips, St. Venant's principle, complex variable methods, Goursat-Muskhelishvili representation, stress concentrations around holes and cracks. Three dimensional problems, Kelvin's solution, the Boussinesq problem, Hertzian contact, Eshelby's energy-momentum tensor. Meets with ENGMS580.  Students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG ME 581: Experimental Techniques in Solid Mechanics
           			Theory and practice of experimental techniques used in solid mechanics. Topics include ultrasonic NDE, optical strain techniques (e.g., Moire interferometry, spectroscopy), and material strength and stiffness testing (e.g., fracture, fatigue, elastic constants). Also examines the use of computer for data acquisition and control. Some discussion of theory related to filters, sampling theory, uncertainty analysis, and spectra and correlations is incorporated. 		

ENG ME 582: Mechanical Behavior of Materials
           			Fundamental concepts of modern materials behavior and materials engineering. Emphasis on analytical and numerical methods for predicting material properties and behavior, as well as some discussion of the relationships between solid structure and material properties. Topics include: constitutive relations, fracture, fatigue, plasticity, creep, damping, impact, and deformation. Elastic, plastic, and viscous behavior. Some discussion of the effects of processing--thermodynamics, kinetics--may be addressed. Specific examples from ceramics, metals, polymers, and composites is given, with the emphasis changing for each offering. Meets with ENGMS582.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG ME 583: Product Management
           			Planning and execution of the process of bringing new tangible and intangible products to market.  Review of the new product development process.  Establishment of the new product specification.  Setting of financial expectations.  Formation and dynamics of the product implementation team.  Organization of the new product introduction project including matrixed management and financial control.  Contingency planning and risk management.  Taught through case-based discussions, lectures, and readings. 		

ENG ME 584: Manufacturing Strategy
           			Strategic decision-making for technical people in manufacturing companies.  Provides practice in applying financial, organizational, and operational concepts through analysis and discussion of case situations. Topics include  process alternatives and their implications; interactions among product design, process design, worker skill and worker motivation; supplier relationships; interfaces with marketing and finance; introduction of new technology; capacity planning; and competitive analysis. Taught principally by in-class discussion plus guest lectures. 		

ENG ME 700: Advanced Topics in Mechanical Engineering
           			Specific prerequisites vary according to research topic. 		

ENG ME 701: Optimal and Robust Control
           			This course is aimed at an introduction (with rigorous treatment) to the fundamentals of optimal and robust control.  It will be divided roughly into two parts.  The first will cover aspects of robust control including model reduction, H_2 and H_ infinity control, and feedback control of uncertain systems.  The second will delve into optimal control including topics such as the linear quadratic regulator, the calculus of variations, the maximum principle, and the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation. Meets with ENG EC701 and ENG SE 701; students may not take both for credit. 		

ENG ME 702: Computational Fluid Dynamics
           			Numerical techniques for solving the Navier-Stokes and related equations. Topics are selected from the following list, although the emphasis may shift from year to year: boundary integral methods for potential and Stokes flows; free surface flow computations; panel methods; finite difference, finite element and finite volume methods; spectral and pseudo-spectral methods; vortex methods; lattice-gas and lattice-Boltzmann techniques; numerical grid generation. 		

ENG ME 703: Managerial Cost Accounting
           			This course provides an overview of accounting measures important to manufacturing operations for both engineers and managers. It begins with a summary of accounting fundamentals, including financial reporting and performance measurement.  Topics include cost accounting management for job-order, hybrid, and just-in-time operations; activity based costing and management; measuring and managing spoilage; capacity cost; and analysis of new technology investments. 		

ENG ME 704: Adaptive Control
	This course provides a theoretical foundation for developing adaptive controllers for dynamic systems. Topics include system identification, model reference adaptive control, adaptive pole placement control, and adaptive control of nonlinear systems. Meets with ENG SE 704. Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG ME 706: Acoustics and Aerodynamic Sound
           			Theoretical foundations of fluid and structural acoustics. Solutions of the wave equation; vibrations of plates and membranes; multiple expansions, influence of source motion; reciprocity; compact Green's functions, radiation from vibrating bodies; matched expansions; acoustics energy equation; aerodynamic sound. 		

ENG ME 707: Finite Element Analysis
           			An introduction to the finite element method with emphasis on fundamental concepts. Variational equations, Galerkin's method. Finite element applications to linear elliptic boundary value problems in structures, solid and fluid mechanics, and heat transfer. Optimality, convergence, function spaces and energy norms. Isoparametric elements. Mixed methods, penalty methods, selective reduced integration; applications may include Kirchoff plate theory, incompressible elasticity, Stokes flow.  Thick and thin beams, plates, and shells.  Implementation: element data structures, numerical integration, assembly of equations, element routines, solvers.  Advanced topics may include dynamic analysis, stabilized methods, eigenvalue problems, and hybrid analytical methods. 		

ENG ME 709: Turbulent Flows
           			Introduction to turbulence. Deterministic versus statistical descriptions of fluids; kinematics; correlations and spectra; closure of the fluid equations of turbulence. Reynolds stresses; spectral evolution; analysis of scales. Analysis of isotropic turbulence and modeling of turbulent flows. Current topics. 		

ENG ME 710: Dynamic Programming and Stochastic Control
           			Introduction to sequential decision making via dynamic programming. The principle of optimality as a unified approach to optimal control of dynamic systems and Markovian decision problems. Applications from control theory and operations research include linear-quadratic problems, the discrete Kalman Filter, inventory control, network, investment, and resource allocation models. Adaptive control and numerical solutions through successive approximation and policy iteration, suboptimal control, and neural network applications involving functional approximations and learning. Meets with ENGEC710 and ENGSE710. Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG ME 711: Multiscale Methods in Computational Mechanics
           			This course will cover the state-of-the-art in analytical and (especially) computational techniques for solving problems with multiple spatial and temporal scales. Such problems are now at the forefront of computational mechanics with applications ranging from turbulence and its modeling to the coupling of atomistic and continuum scales in solid mechanics. We will begin with the more traditional methods including multi-scale perturbation techniques and renormalization group theory. Thereafter we will focus on more recent developments with distinct computational focus including: the Optimal Prediction Method of Chorin et al., the Equation Free Method of Kevrekidis et al, the Variational Multiscale Method of Hughes et al. and the Heterogeneous Multiscale Method of Weinan et al. We will also cover an approach to determine unknown parameters in the models derived from these methods. The differences and similarities between these methods will also be discussed and highlighted. 		

ENG ME 713: Viscous Flow
           			Brief review of the fundamental conservation and constitutive equations, exact solutions of the viscous Navier-Stokes equations, similarity solutions, boundary layer theory; creeping flows, flow in Hele-Shaw cells, lubrication theory, thin shear layer approximations, jets and wakes, hydrodynamic instability and transition to turbulence, Reynolds-averaged Navier-Stokes equations. 		

ENG ME 714: Advanced Stochastic Modeling and Simulation
		Introduction to Markov chains, point processes, diffusion processes as models of stochastic systems of practical interest. The course focuses on numerical and simulation methods for performance evaluation, optimization, and control of such systems.  Meets with ENGSE714.  Students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG ME 715: Waves in Fluids
	Analytical methods are developed for studying the propagation and diffraction of waves in uniform and in homogeneous fluid media.  Illustrative applications are made to sound waves, gravity waves, waves in random media, evanescent waves. 		

ENG ME 718: Advanced Topics in Nanotechnology
           			Nanotechnology is emerging as the technology of the 21st century. There is an ever growing effort by scientists and engineers across disciplines to envision, fabricate and integrate nanoscale devices for countless applications. This course will give a rigorous introduction to the basic concepts and experimental techniques in nanoscience and nanotechnology. The course will review relevant quantum mechanics and solid state physics as a basis for understanding the physical phenomena at the nanoscale. Then, basic issues in nanofabrication, Scanning Probe Microscopy (SPM), nanoelectronics and nanomechanics will be discussed. 		

ENG ME 719: Computational Problem Solving
		Intensive course in computer problem solving using object-oriented programming and research paradigms. Student learns programming skills required to use computer as a research tool and develops ability to design algorithms and data structures for efficient computation. Problems selected from areas including modeling, simulation, optimization, and computer-aided design. Topics include programming techniques, data representation, data management, searching and sorting, recursion, graph theory, formal language theory, and combinatorial analysis. 		

           			Wave equation in cylindrical and spherical co-ordinate systems.  Propagation in waveguides.  Diffraction: the Rayleigh integral and the Helmholtz-Kirchhoff integral.  Green's function and angular spectrum methods.  Diffraction of sound beams: Guassian beams, unfocused and focused sources, and arrays.  Diffraction by apertures, discs and wedges.  Scattering of sound; Rayleigh scattering, scattering cross-section, elastic scatters.  Propagation in inhomogeneous media: rays, the eikonal equation, the Blokhintzev invariant and the acoustic field near caustics.  Absorption and dispersion of acoustic waves.  Transmission and reflection at a fluid-solid interface.		

ENG ME 721: Acoustic Bubble Dynamics
           			Bubbles and acoustic cavitation play an important role in many aspects of application of sonic and ultrasonic energy in fluids and biological tissue.  This course will introduce the study of bubble phenomena in sound fields.  The fundamental physical acoustics of bubbles and the fundamental physics which can be illustrated by the study of bubble dynamics will be stressed.  The family of Rayleigh-Plesset equations for time-dependent bubble behavior will be derived from the Navier-Stokes equations.  Analytical approximations to the Rayleigh-Plesset equations in various limiting cases will be derived and studied.  Approximations to the thermodynamic behavior of oscillating bubbles will be considered in detail.  Thermal, acoustic, and viscous contributions to dissipation will be treated.  Numerical solutions will also be studied, specifically in the context of highly nonlinear behavior during acoustically forced oscillations.  Other topics covered will include scattering of sound and acoustic radiation, acoustics of bubbly liquids, bubble-mediated bioeffects, shape instabilities, acoustic levitation, sonoluminescence, heat and mass transfer during bubble oscillations, sonochemistry and cavitation detection and monitoring. 		

ENG ME 723: Waves in Random Media
           			Systematic development of wave phenomena in weakly inhomogeneous and moving media. Emphasis is on acoustic waves, with selected examples from other branches of wave physics. Both ray-tracing and full-wave methods are discussed. Introduction to the statistical description of random media and of turbulent media. Formulations for relating statistical properties of wave phenomena to the statistical properties of the medium. 		

ENG ME 724: Advanced Optimization Theory and Methods
		Complements ENGEC524 by introducing advanced optimization techniques. Emphasis on nonlinear optimization and recent developments in the field. Topics include: unconstrained optimization methods such as gradient and incremental gradient, conjugate direction, Newton and quasi-Newton methods; constrained optimization methods such as projection, feasible directions, barrier and interior point methods; duality; and stochastic approximation algorithms.  Introduction to modern convex optimization including semi-definite programming, conic programming, and robust optimization.  Applications drawn from control, production and capacity planning, resource allocation, communication and sensor networks, and bioinformatics.  Meets with ENGEC724 and ENGSE724.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG ME 725: Queueing Systems
		Performance modeling using queueing networks, analysis of product form and non-product form networks, numerical methods for performance evaluation, approximate models of queueing systems, optimal design and control of queueing networks. Applications from manufacturing systems, computer systems and communication networks. Meets with ENGEC725 and ENGSE725.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG ME 726: Fundamentals of Biomaterials
           			Provides the chemistry and engineering skills needed to solve challenges in the    biomaterials and tissue engineering area, concentrating on the fundamental    principles in biomedical engineering, material science, and chemistry.  Covers    the structure and properties of hard materials (ceramics and metals) and soft    materials (polymers and hydro-gels).  Same as ENG BE 726 and ENG MS 726.   Students  may not  receive credit for both.		

ENG ME 727: Principles and Applications of Tissues
           			Provides the chemistry and engineering skills needed to solve challenges in the  biomaterials and tissue engineering area, concentrating on cell-biomaterial  interactions, soft tissue mechanics and specific research topics.  Students will  write a NIH-style grant proposal on a specific research topic.  Note that the  laboratory portion is not offered in ENG ME 727. Same as ENG BE 727/ENG MS 727.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG ME 728: Special Topics in Wave Propagation
           			Format is similar to that of regular classroom courses, with in-depth coverage of an announced topic of current interest in wave propagation.  Subject matter varies from year to year. 		

ENG ME 729: Non-linear Acoustics and Sonic Booms
           			Propagation of finite amplitude sound, principles of one-dimensional unsteady compressible flow. Discussion of non-linear distortion, generation of harmonics, weak shocks, N-waves, and of shock profiles. Supersonic aerodynamics, flow around bodies in supersonic flight, generation of sonic booms, non-linear acoustics theory of boom propagation through the atmosphere. Selected additional topics in non-linear acoustics. 		

ENG ME 732: Combinatorial Optimization and Graph Algorithms
           			Design data structures and efficient algorithms for priority queues, minimum spanning trees, searching in graphs, strongly connected components, shortest paths, maximum matching, and maximum network flow. Some discussion of intractable problems and distributed network algorithms.		

ENG ME 733: Discrete Event and Hybrid Systems
		Review of system theory fundamentals distinguishing between time-driven and event-driven dynamics.  Modeling of Discrete Event and Hybrid Systems; Automata, Hybrid Automata, Petri Nets, basic queueing models, and stochastic flow models.  Monte Carlo computer simulation:  basic structure and output analysis.  Analysis, control, and optimization techniques based on Markov Decision Process theory with applications to scheduling, resource allocation, and games of chance.  Perturbation Analysis and Rapid Learning methods with applications to communication networks, manufacturing systems, and command-control.  Meets with ENGEC733 and ENGSE733.  Students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG ME 734: Hybrid Systems
		The course offers a detailed introduction to hybrid systems, which are dynamical systems combining continuous dynamics (modeled by differential equations) with discrete dynamics (modeled by automata). The covered topics include modeling, simulation, stability analysis, verification, and control of such systems. The course contains several applications from both natural and manmade environments, ranging from gene networks in biology, to networked embedded systems in avionics and automotive controls, and to motion planning and control in robotics. Same as ENG ME 734 and ENG SE 734. Students may receive credit for one. 4 cr. 1st sem. 		

ENG ME 736: Biomedical Transport Phenomena
           			Students are introduced to the analysis and characterization of physiological systems and biomedical devices in which chemical reaction and the transport of mass and momentum play predominant roles. Fundamental scientific issues and analytical techniques are introduced and applied to case studies of specific engineering problems. Some knowledge of a high-level computer programming language is essential. A two-hour computer lab is required. Meets with ENGBE736 and ENGMS736. Students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG ME 740: Vision, Robotics, and Planning
           			Methodologies required for constructing and operating intelligent mechanisms. Comprehensive introduction to robot kinematics for motion planning. Dynamics and control of mechanical systems. Formal treatment of differential relationships for understanding the control of forces and torques at the end effector. Discussion of robot vision and sensing and advanced topics in robot mechanics, including elastic effects and kinematic redundancy. Meets with ENGSE740. Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG ME 741: Fluid-Structure Interaction
           			Discussion of basic phenomena occurring when the response of a solid structure immersed in or bounding a flow has a significant influence on the flow. Methods are developed and applied to a general range of vibration problems that arise in diverse situations involving the interaction of laminar and turbulent flows with rigid and elastic structures.		

ENG ME 742: Bio-Fluids and Structural Mechanics
           			Mechanics of biological systems, with emphasis on biological application of fluid mechanics. Topics will be chosen from the following: cardiovascular dynamics--pulsatile flow, vessel elasticity, non-Newtonian behavior, flow in bifurcations, thermodilution; pulmonary dynamics--oscillatory flow, convection-diffusion interactions, surface tension effects, high frequency ventilation, turbulence; clinical applications--urodynamics, bone fracture, dental mechanics, male impotency; mechanics of propulsion--microorganisms in viscous liquids, swimming, flying.		

ENG ME 760: Control of Sound and Vibration
		Physical principles and multivariable control techniques involved in the active control of sound and vibration. Topics in sound control include reduction of noise in ducts, structural control to reduce acoustic radiation, and sound field control in enclosures. Vibration control for both lumped and distributed parameter systems, with examples from space structure control and active vibration isolation. Control techniques include feedback and feed forward approaches, LMS adaptive algorithms, linear quadratic regulators, and modern robust control techniques. Effects of system modeling errors and simplifications (i.e., modal truncation) are studied. Laboratory experience implementing a vibration-control scheme for a cantilever beam.		

ENG ME 761: Experimental Modal Analysis and System Identification
		Fundamental concepts of modal testing; analysis of multi-degree-of-freedom systems; viscous and hysteretic damping models; proportional and non-proportional damping; receptance, mobility and inertance frequency response functions; random and transient vibrations; practical issues concerning mobility measurement techniques; modal parameter extraction in frequency domain and time domain; structural modification; effects of non-linearities on modal analysis; engineering applications. 		

ENG ME 762: Nonlinear Systems and Control
		Emphasizes basic methodological tools and recent advances for the solution of scheduling problems in both deterministic and stochastic settings. Models considered include classical scheduling models, DEDS, neural nets, queueing models, flow control models, and linear programming models. Methods of control and analysis include optimal control, dynamic programming, fuzzy control, adaptive control, hierarchical control, genetic algorithms, simulated annealing, Lagrangian relaxation, and heavy traffic approximations. Examples and case studies focus on applications from manufacturing systems, computer and communication networks, and transportation systems.  Meets with ENGSE766.  Students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG ME 778: Micromachined Tranducers
		The field of micro-electromechanical devices and systems (MEMS) has been growing at an exciting pace in recent years.  The interdisciplinary nature of both micro-machining techniques and their applications can and does lead to exciting synergies.  This course will explore the world of mostly silicon-based micro-machined transducers, i.e., micro-sensors and micro-actuators.  This requires an awareness of material properties, fabrication technologies, basic structural mechanics, sensing and actuation principles, circuit and system issues, packaging, calibration, and testing.  The material will be covered through a combination of lectures, case studies, individual homework assignments, and design projects carried out in teams.  		

ENG ME 780: Perturbation Methods in Mechanics
		Regular and singular perturbation theory. Topics taught through examples related to solid mechanics, fluid mechanics, and dynamics, and include: matched asymptotic expansions, method of multiple scales, WKB, strained coordinates, asymptotic expansion of integrals, method of averaging, exponential asymptotics, asymptotic summation, perturbation of dimension. 		

ENG ME 781: Electroceramics
	This course will explore the structure property relationships and phenomena in  ceramic materials used in  electronic, dielectric, ferroelectric, magnetic, and  electrochemical applications.  In particular we will discover how to  functionalize a component for a particular application - a capacitor, a  thermistor, actuator, or a fuel cell. Such a discovery process demands an in- depth understanding of the roles and interrelationships between the crystal  structure, defect chemistry, microstructure, and texture in such materials.   Statistical thermodynamics, quantum mechanics, and solid mechanics principles  will be used as and when necessary in the course. The course is intended to fit  in the space  and act as a bridge between solid state theory where the emphasis  is  largely on theory and a ceramic materials course where the emphasis is  largely on processing. 4 cr		

ENG ME 785: Computer-Integrated Manufacturing
		Elements of CAD/CAM systems examined with an emphasis on system integration tools, graphical programming of spatially oriented tasks, as well as automatic code generation necessary to provide the voluminous code needed to drive a factory floor. Students gain insight into the interplay between system components, interfaces, and the overall system. (Formerly ENGMN785)		

ENG ME 788: Soft Tissue Biomechanics
           			This course will introduce students to the mechanics of soft biological tissue.  In particular, the response of the heart, vasculature, and tissue scaffolds to mechanical loads from the perspective of nonlinear solid mechanics will be studied. Constitutive models for hyperelastic materials will be adapted to biomaterials to handle mechanical characteristics such as nonlinearity, viscoelasticity, and orthotropy.  Basic experimental methods, and anatomy and physiology of particular tissue types will also be introduced. Emphasis is placed on integrating the basic analytical, experimental, and computational methods for a  more complete understanding of the underlying mechanobiology.  Meets with ENG BE788.  Students may not receive credit for both.  4 cr.		

ENG ME 801: Teach Pract 1
			

ENG ME 802: Teach Pract 2
			

ENG ME 900: Research
		Participation in a research project under the direction of a faculty advisor. If not leading to an MS thesis or PhD dissertation, a final report is normally required. 		

ENG ME 901: Thesis
		Preparation of an original thesis under the guidance of a faculty member.		

ENG ME 925: Graduate Project
		A practical mechanical design, analysis, fabrication, or production project. Written report required. 		

ENG ME 951: Independent Study
		Graduate students may study, under a faculty member's supervision, subjects not covered in a regularly offered course. Final report and/or written examination normally required.		

ENG ME 991: Dissertation
		Advisor and hours arranged.		

ENG MS 306: Introduction to Materials Science
           			Structure and properties of solids; crystalline structure; defect structures; atom movement and diffusion; nucleation and growth; deformation; phase diagrams; strengthening mechanisms; heat treatment; ferrous/nonferrous alloys; ceramics; polymers; composites. Includes lab. Meets with ENGME306.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG MS 465: Materials Processing
           			he influence of manufacturing processes on structure and properties of materials. Manufacturing by liquid and solid state processing techniques, material removal processes and bonding and joining processes. Surface modification techniques for enhancing performance and product service life. Includes lab. Meets with ENGME465.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG MS 500: Special Topics in Materials Science and Engineering
           			Coverage of a specific topic in materials science and engineering.  Subject varies from year to year and is generally from an area of current or emerging research. 		

ENG MS 503: Kinetic Processes in Materials
           			Kinetics of mass transport, continuum and atomistic approaches, chemical diffusion; kinetics of chemical reactions, kinetics of adsorption and evaporation; nucleation and growth; solidification; spinodal decomposition; coarsening; martensitic transformations; order-disorder reactions; point defects and their relation to transport kinetics. Meets with ENGME503; students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG MS 504: Polymers and Soft Materials
	An introduction to soft matter for students with background in materials science, chemistry, and physics.  This course covers general aspects of structures, properties, and applications of soft materials such as polymers, colloids, liquid crystals, amphiphiles, gels, and biomaterials.  Emphasis on chemistry and forces related to molecular self-assembly.  Topics include forces, energies, kinetics in material synthesis, growth and transformation; methods for preparing synthetic materials; formation, assembly, phase behavior, and molecular ordering of synthetic soft materials; structure, function, and phase transition of natural materials such as nucleic acids, proteins, polysaccharides, and lipids; techniques for characterizing the structure, phase and dynamics of soft materials; application of soft materials in nanotechnology.  Meets with ENG ME 504; students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG MS 505: Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics
           			The laws of thermodynamics; general formulation and applications to mechanical, electromagnetic and electromechanical systems; thermodynamics of solutions, phase diagrams; thermodynamics of interfaces, adsorption; defect equilibrium in crystals; statistical thermodynamics, including ensembles, gases, crystal lattices, and phase transitions.  Same as ENGME505; students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG MS 507: Process Modeling and Control
           			An introduction to modeling and control as applied to industrial unit processes providing the basis for process development and improvement.  Major themes include an integrated treatment of modeling multi-domain physical systems (electrical, mechanical, fluid, thermal), application of classical control techniques, and system design.  Topics include modeling techniques, analysis of linear dynamics, control fundamentals in the time and frequency domain, and actuator selection and control structure design.  Examples drawn from a variety of manufacturing processes and case studies. Meets with ENGME507.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

           			Introduction to computational materials science.  Multi-scale simulation methods; electronic structure, atomistic, micro-structure, continuum, and mathematical analysis methods; rate processes and rare events.  Materials defect theory; modeling of crystal defects, solid micro-structures, fluids, polymers, and bio-polymers.  Materials scaling theory: phase transition, dimensionality, and localization.  Perspectives on predictive materials design.  Same as ENGME508; students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG MS 523: Mechanics of Biomaterials
           			. Covers the chemical composition, physical structure, and mechanical behavior of engineering materials and the tissues they sometimes replace. Study of materials classes; materials selection; deformation of an elastic solid; yield and fracture; fundamentals of viscoelastic phenomena such as creep, stress relaxation, stress rupture, mechanical damping, impact; effects of chemical composition and structure on mechanical properties; methods of chemical property evaluation. Fracture and fatigue. Influences of plastics fabrication methods on mechanical properties. Emphasis on recent research techniques and results. Discussion of practical matters in medical device design including regulatory approvals, sterilization, packaging and quality control. Students will complete a semester-long design project. Same as ENG ME 523 and ENG MS 523; students can only receive credit for one of these courses. 4 cr.		

ENG MS 524: Skeletal Tissue Mechanics
           			The course is structured around classical topics in mechanics of materials and their application to study of the mechanical behavior of skeletal tissues, whole bones, bone-implant systems, and diarthroidal joints.  Topics include:  mechanical behavior of tissues, (anisotropy, viscoelasticity, fracture and fatigue) with emphasis on the role of the microstructure of these tissues; structural properties of whole bones and implants (composite and asymmetric bean theories); and mechanical function of joints (contact mechanics, lubrication, and wear).  Emphasis is placed on using experimental data to test and to develop theoretical models, as well as on using the knowledge gained to address common health related problems related to aging, disease, and injury.  Meets with ENGME524 and ENGBE524. Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG MS 526: Simulation of Physical Processes
           			Modern simulation methods are covered for describing and analyzing the behavior   of realistic nonlinear systems that occur in the engineering and science   disciplines. By developing and applying such methods and tools, much deeper   understanding, insight, and control of novel technologies can be gained, thereby   often greatly aiding technology development, and sometimes providing the   leverage to turn a novel technology into a practical reality. Advanced numerical  methods are covered for attacking nonlinear partial differential equations. Key  aspects of the finite element method. Extensive use is made of the modern  computational tools Maple and Scientific Workplace. Examples including problems  in micro- and nanoelectronics, bioengineering, material science, photonics, and  physics are introduced and related to sensing instrumentation and control.   Meets with ENGME526. Students may not receive credit  for both. 4 cr. On Demand 		

ENG MS 527: Transport Phenomena in Materials Processing
           			Introduction to momentum, heat and mass transport phenomena occurring in various processes.  Whereas transport phenomena underlie many processes in engineering, agriculture, meteorology, physiology, biology, analytical chemistry, materials science, pharmacy and other areas, they are key to specific applications in diverse areas such as materials processing, green manufacturing of primary materials, biological membranes, fuel cell engineering, synthesis of clean fuels.  This course covers three closely related transport phenomena: momentum transfer (fluid flow), energy transfer (heat flow) and mass transfer (diffusion).  The mathematical underpinnings of all three transport phenomena are closely related and the differential equations governing them are frequently quite similar.  Since in many situations the three transport phenomena occur together, they are presented and studied together in this course. Meets with ENGME27.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG MS 530: Introduction to Micro- and Nano-mechanics of Solids
           			Mechanics and physics of solids at the nanometer scale: introductory graduate level course for students with background in undergraduate engineering mechanics (or solid state physics) and mathematics.  Review of continuum solid mechanics fundamentals.  Introduction to dislocation theory.  Continuum elastic theory of dislocations.  Mechanics of thin films.  Review of fundamentals of solid state physics.  Electron motion in a periodic potential.  Derivative of bulk material properties from free-electron and free-atom models.  Phonons.  Introduction to atomistic computational methods. Meets with ENGME530.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG MS 532: Atomic Structures and Dislocations in Materials
           			Relates mechanical behavior of crystalline materials to processes occurring at microscopic and/or atomic levels. Topics covered include structure of materials and their determination by X-ray diffraction; dislocations and their relationship to plastic deformation and strength of materials; fracture and creep. Meets with ENGME532.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG MS 534: Materials Technology for Microelectronics
           			This course deals with the materials issues in microelectronics processing. Fundamental materials science concepts of bonding, electronic structure, crystal structure, defects, diffusion and phase diagrams are applied to key processing steps in microelectronics technology; including single crystal growth, lithography, thermal oxidation of Si, dopant diffusion, ion implantation, thin film deposition, etching and interconnect technology; as well as widely used microelectronics simulation software such as SUPREM. Materials challenges in emerging directions in micro and nanoelectronics, including silicon on insulator technology, Si-Ge strained layers, and quantum dots will also be addressed. 4 cr. summer and either sem.		

ENG MS 535: Green Manufacturing
           			Provides a systems view of the manufacturing process that aims to efficiently use energy, water, and raw materials to minimize air and water pollution and generation of waste per unit of the manufactured product. Specifically, the course will discuss methods to maximize yield and minimize waste effluents in processes, ways to devise treatment strategies for handling manufacturing wastes, innovative ways to decrease energy consumption in manufacturing, by-product use and product recycling, and policies that encourage green manufacturing. Meets with ENGME535.  Students may not receive credit for both. 4 cr.		

ENG MS 539: Introduction to Materials Science and Engineering
	MS539 is an introductory gradute level course in Materials Science and Engineering. It is intended for students who wish to be introduced to the basics of why materials behave the way they do. It covers topics such as atomic bonding, why and how solids form and their structures, phase transitions, phase diagrams, electronic/magnetic/optical/thermal properties of materials, materials processing and how it influences their properties, ceramics, polymers, ferrous and non-ferrous metals, glasses and societal concern in the use and re-use of materials.  This is a 4 credit course.		

ENG MS 545: Electrochemistry of Fuel Cells and Batteries
           			Electrochemistry of high temperature fuel cells, batteries and ceramic gas separation membranes. Types, advantages and disadvantages of fuel cells currently being developed by the power generation industry, and the electrochemical underpinnings of fuel cell operation.  Thermodynamics of fuel cells, electrode kinetics and mass transport in porous electrodes.  Measurements techniques (dc polarization, ac impedance spectroscopy and blocking electrodes) used extensively in fuel cell research and development.  Operation of batteries and ceramic gas separation membranes. Current manufacturing techniques used in fuel cell industry. Meets with ENGME545.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG MS 549: Structure and Function of the Extracellular Matrix
	This is an introductory course dealing with the detailed structure of the basic    units of the extracellular matrix including collagen, elastin, microfibrils and    proteoglycans as well as the functional properties of these molecules. The focus    is mostly on how the structure of these components determine the functional    properties such as elasticity at different scales from molecule to fibrils to    organ level behavior. The biological role of these components and their    interaction with cells is also covered. Interaction ofenzymes and the matrix in    the presence of mechanical forces is discussed. Mathematical modeling is applied    at various length scales of the extracellular matrix that provides quantitative    understanding of the structure and function relationship. Special topics include    how diseases affect extracellular matrix in the lung, cartilage and vasculature.    The relevance of the properties of native extracellular matrix for tissue    engineering is also discussed. Meets with ME 549 and BE 549. 4 cr.		

ENG MS 555: MEMS: Fabrication and Materials
	This course will explore the world of microelectromechanical devices and systems (MEMS). This requires an awareness of design, fabrication, and material issues involved in MEMS. The material will be covered through a combination of lectures, case studies, and individual homework assignments. The course will cover design, fabrication technologies, material properties, structural mechanics, basic sensing and actuation principles, packaging, and MEMS markets and applications. The course will emphasize MEMS fabrication and materials.  Meets with ENGME555.  Students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG MS 573: Solar Energy Systems
           			This course is designed for first-year graduate and senior undergraduate students from engineering disciplines and is intended to educate students in the design and application of solar energy technology. It will focus on fundamentals of solar energy conversion, solar cells, optical engineering, photoelectrochemical cells, thermoelectric generators, and energy storage and distribution systems.  The course covers solar energy insolation and global energy needs, current trends in photovoltaic energy engineering, solar cell material science, design and installation of solar panels for residential and industrial applications and connections to the national grid and cost analysis of the overall system. In addition, basic manufacturing processes for the production of solar panels, environmental impacts, and the related system engineering aspects will be included to provide a comprehensive state-of-the art approach to solar energy utilization. Meets with ENG EC573; students may not take credit for both.  4 cr.  		

ENG MS 574: Physics of Semiconductor Materials
           			This course teaches the relevent notions of quantum mechanics and solid state physics necessary to understand the operation and the design of modern semiconductor devices. Specifically, this course focuses on the engineering aspects of solid state physics that are important to study the electrical and optical properties of semiconductor materials and devices. Particular emphasis is placed on the analysis of the electronic structure of semiconductor bulk systems and low-dimensional structures, the study of the carrier transport properties and the calculation of the optical response that are relevant to the design and optimization of electronics and photonics semiconductor devices. The students will learn to apply the quantum mechanical formalism to the solution of basic engineering device problems (quantum wells, wires, and dots, 2D electron gas) and to perform numerical calculation on more complex systems (band structure calculation of bulk and low dimensional systems).		

ENG MS 577: Electronic Optical and Magnetic Properties of Materials
           			This course in intended to develop an in depth knowledge of solid state concepts that are important for students in the areas of material science and  electrical engineering. Specifically,  this course  focuses on the study of different apsect of solid state physics necessary to study technologically relevant crytalline and amorphous systems.  Particular enphasis is placed on the study of the crystal structure, crystal diffraction and the related techniques used as diagnostic tools; the electronic, thermal, optical and magnetic properties of material systems important for electronics and photonics device applications. Furthermore the course will also consider the theory of superconductivity, the chemistry aspcts of solid state materials and will provide an introduction to solid state biophysics. This course complements EC 574 (Physics of semiconductor material) and EC575 (semiconductor devices) with its focus on technologically relevant structural, optical, thermal and magnetic material properties. Meets with ENG EC 577. Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG MS 580: Theory of Elasticity
           			An introduction to the general theory of solid deformation; small deformation emphasized. Topics include: Cartesian tensors, indicial notation. Introduction to continuum mechanics: deformation of continuous media, deformation gradient, strain definitions. Stress, Cauchy's postulate, Cauchy and Piola-Kirchhoff stress tensors. Balance laws. Constitutive equations, strain energy and Green's postulate. Linear Elasticity: Two dimensional problems, Airy stress function, in plane loading of strips, St. Venant's principle, complex variable methods, Goursat-Muskhelishvili representation, stress concentrations around holes and cracks. Three dimensional problems, Kelvin's solution, the Boussinesq problem, Hertzian contact, Eshelby's energy-momentum tensor. Meets with ENGME580.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG MS 582: Mechanical Behavior of Materials
           			Fundamental concepts of modern materials behavior and materials engineering. Emphasis on analytical and numerical methods for predicting material properties and behavior, as well as some discussion of the relationships between solid structure and material properties. Topics include: constitutive relations, fracture, fatigue, plasticity, creep, damping, impact, and deformation. Elastic, plastic, and viscous behavior. Some discussion of the effects of processing--thermodynamics, kinetics--may be addressed. Specific examples from ceramics, metals, polymers, and composites is given, with the emphasis changing for each offering. Meets with ENGME582.  Students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG MS 700: Advanced Special Topics
           			Advanced study of a specific research topic in materials science and engineering.  Intended primarily for advanced graduate students. On Demand.  Var cr.		

ENG MS 718: Adv Top Nanotec
		This course description is currently under construction.		

           			Provides the chemistry and engineering skills needed to solve challenges in the biomaterials and tissue engineering area, concentrating on the fundamental principles in biomedical engineering, material science, and chemistry.  Covers the structure and properties of hard materials (ceramics and metals) and soft materials (polymers and hydro-gels).    Same as ENG BE 726 and ME 726. Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG MS 727: Principles and Applications of Tissue Engineering
           			Provides the chemistry and engineering skills needed to solve challenges in the biomaterials and tissue engineering area, concentrating on cell-biomaterial interactions, soft tissue mechanics and specific research topics.  Students will write a NIH-style grant proposal on a specific research topic.  Note that the laboratory portion is not offered in MS 727. Same as BE 727/ME 727. Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG MS 735: Cmptnl Nanomech
           			This course description is currently under construction.		

ENG MS 736: Biomedical Transport Phenomena
           			Students are introduced to the analysis and characterization of physiological systems and biomedical devices in which chemical reaction and the transport of mass and momentum play predominant roles. Fundamental scientific issues and analytical techniques are introduced and applied to case studies of specific engineering problems. Some knowledge of a high-level computer programming language is essential. A two-hour computer lab is required. Meets with ENGBE736 and ENGME736. Students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG MS 742: Bio-Fluids and Structural Mechanics
		Mechanics of biological systems, with emphasis on biological application of fluid mechanics. Topics will be chosen from the following: cardiovascular dynamics--pulsatile flow, vessel elasticity, non-Newtonian behavior, flow in bifurcations, thermodilution; pulmonary dynamics--oscillatory flow, convection-diffusion interactions, surface tension effects, high frequency ventilation, turbulence; clinical applications--urodynamics, bone fracture, dental mechanics, male impotency; mechanics of propulsion--microorganisms in viscous liquids, swimming, flying.		

ENG MS 764: Optical Measurement
           			In this course we will start with a review of classical electromagnetic radiation theory and properties of light such as polarization and coherence. In the first part of the course we will look at applications of interference and polarization effects used in different passive application areas such as resonators (e.g. sensors, switching, and detection), visibility and interferometry measurements and the usage both of highly coherent and incoherent light respectively. The second part of the course will consider light-matter interactions in dispersive media and compare classical, semi-classical, and quantum mechanical models with focus on the two-level system. The analysis will be applied to active spectroscopy measurements such as absorption and transmission, Photoluminescence, Raman and IR in time and frequency domain measurements. The emphasis will be on extracting material morphology and material properties, illustrated with classical and current journal papers. Finally, we will also discuss relevant tools such as spectrometers and detectors. 		

ENG MS 774: Semiconductor Quantum Structures and Photonic Devices
           			Optical properties of semiconductors: interband optical transitions; excitons.  Low-dimensional structures: quantum wells, superlattices, quantum wires, quantum dots, and their optical properties; intersubband transitions.  Lasers: double-heterojunction, quantum-well, quantum-dot, and quantum-cascade lasers; high-speed laser dynamics.  Electro-optical properties of bulk and low-dimensional semiconductors; electroabsorption modulators.  Detectors: photoconductors and photodiodes; quantum-well infrared photodetectors. Same as ENG MS 774. Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG MS 778: Micromachined Tranducers
		The field of micro-electromechanical devices and systems (MEMS) has been growing at an exciting pace in recent years.  The interdisciplinary nature of both micro-machining techniques and their applications can and does lead to exciting synergies.  This course will explore the world of mostly silicon-based micro-machined transducers, i.e., micro-sensors and micro-actuators.  This requires an awareness of material properties, fabrication technologies, basic structural mechanics, sensing and actuation principles, circuit and system issues, packaging, calibration, and testing.  The material will be covered through a combination of lectures, case studies, individual homework assignments, and design projects carried out in teams.		

ENG MS 781: Electroceramics
	This course will explore the structure property relationships and phenomena in ceramic materials used in electronic, dielectric, ferroelectric, magnetic, and electrochemical applications. In particular we will discover how to functionalize a component for a particular application- a capacitor, a thermistor, actuator, or a fuel cell. Such a discovery process demands an in-depth understanding of the roles and interrelationships between the crystal structure, defect chemistry, microstructure, and texture in such materials. Statistical thermodynamics, quantum mechanics, and solid mechanics principles will be used as and when necessary in the course. The course is intended to fit in the space and act as a bridge between solid state theory where the emphasis is largely on theory and a ceramic materials course where the emphasis is largely on processing.		

ENG MS 782: Advanced Materials Characterization
	This course will discuss the characterization of materials' atomic and   electronic structure.  Atomic structure evaluation by x-ray diffraction,   selected area- and convergent-beam electron diffraction; microstructure   evaluation by transmission electron microscopy, principles of bright-field,   dark-field and weak-beam imaging; principles of analytical electron microscopy   using EDS, WDS, AES; study of chemical and bonding states by EELS, Raman   spectroscopy and XPS/ESCA; laser-based non-destructive evaluation of mechanical   properties of materials.  Characterization methods for semiconductors include   the study of point defects by electron paramagnetic resonance, of transport   properties by magnetoresistance and Hall effect, of recombination phenomena by   photoluminescennce and of junction properties by capacitance-voltage methods.		

ENG MS 900: Research
           			Participation in a research project under the direction of a faculty advisor. If not leading to an MS thesis or PhD dissertation, a final report is normally required. 		

ENG MS 901: Thesis
           			Preparation of an original thesis under the guidance of a faculty member.		

ENG MS 925: Graduate Project
           			A practical materials design, analysis, fabrication, or production project. Written report required.		

ENG MS 951: Independent Study
           			Graduate students may study, under a faculty member's supervision, subjects not covered in a regularly offered course. Final report and/or written examination normally required.		

ENG MS 991: Dissertation
           			Advisor and hours arranged		

ENG SE 501: Dynamic Systems Theory
           			Introduction to analytical concepts and examples of dynamic systems and control.  Mathematical description and state space formation of dynamic systems; modeling, controllability, and observability.  Eigenvector and transform analysis of linear systems including canonical forms.  Performance specifications.  State feedback:  pole placement and the linear quadratic regulator.  Introduction to MIMO design and system identification using computer tools and laboratory experiments.  Meets with ENGEC501 and ENGME501; students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG SE 524: Optimization Theory and Methods
           			Introduction to optimization problems and algorithms emphasizing problem formulation, basic methodologies, and underlying mathematical structures. Classical optimization theory as well as recent advances in the field. Topics include modeling issues and formulations, simplex method, duality theory, sensitivity analysis, large-scale optimization, integer programming, interior-point methods, non-linear programming optimality conditions, gradient methods, and conjugate direction methods. Applications are considered; case studies included. Extensive paradigms from production planning and scheduling in manufacturing systems.  Other illustrative applications include fleet management, air traffic flow management, optimal routing in communication networks, and optimal portfolio selection. Meets with ENGEC524.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG SE 543: Sustainable Power Systems: Planning, Operation and Markets
           			Breakthroughs in clean energy generation technologies and the advantage of exploiting efficiently the available work in fossil fuels will render electricity the dominant energy form in a sustainable environment future. We review the key characteristics of Electric Power Transmission and Distribution (T&amp;D) networks and the associated planning and operation requirements that ensure supply adequacy, system security and stability. Capital asset investment and operation cost minimization is discussed in a systems engineering context where the assets as well as the dynamic behavior of generators, T&amp;D networks, and loads interact. Recent developments in the formation of competitive wholesale markets at the High Voltage Transmission system level, the associated market participation and clearing rules and the market clearing optimization algorithms are presented and analyzed in terms of their effectiveness in fostering cost reflective price signals and competitive conditions that encourage optimal distributed/not-centralized investment and operating decisions. Finally, we present T&amp;D congestion and supply-demand imbalance related barriers to the widespread adoption of environmentally friendly and economically efficient technological breakthroughs, and propose a systems engineering and real-time retail-market based coordination of centralized as well as decentralized generation, storage and load management resources that is able to achieve desirable synergies and mitigate these barriers. 4 cr. 		

ENG SE 544: Networking the Physical World
           			Considers the evolution of embedded network sensing systems with the introduction of wireless network connectivity. Key themes are computing optimized for resource constrained (cost, energy, memory and storage space) applications and sensing interfaces to connect to the physical world. Studies current technology for networked embedded network sensors including protocol standards. A laboratory component of the course introduces students to the unique characteristics of distributed sensor motes including programming, reliable communication, sensing modalities, calibration, and application development. Meets with ENGME544. Students may not receive credit for both. 4 cr.  		

ENG SE 700: Advanced Special Topics
           			Advanced study of a specific research topic in systems engineering.  Intended primarily for advanced graduate students. On Demand. Var cr. 		

           			This course is aimed at an introduction (with rigorous treatment) to the fundamentals of optimal and robust control.  It will be divided roughly into two parts.  The first will cover aspects of robust control including model reduction, H_2 and H_ infinity control, and feedback control of uncertain systems.  The second will delve into optimal control including topics such as the linear quadratic regulator, the calculus of variations, the maximum principle, and the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation. Meets with ENG EC701 and ME701. Only one of these courses may be taken for credit.		

ENG SE 704: Adaptive Control
		This course provides a theoretical foundation for developing adaptive controllers for dynamic systems. Topics include system identification, model reference adaptive control, adaptive pole placement control, and adaptive control of nonlinear systems. Meets with ENG ME 704. Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG SE 710: Dynamic Programming and Stochastic Control
           			Introduction to sequential decision making via dynamic programming. The principle of optimality as a unified approach to optimal control of dynamic systems and Markovian decision problems. Applications from control theory and operations research include linear-quadratic problems, the discrete Kalman Filter, inventory control, network, investment, and resource allocation models. Adaptive control and numerical solutions through successive approximation and policy iteration, suboptimal control, and neural network applications involving functional approximations and learning. Meets with ENGEC710 and ENGME710. Students may not receive credit for both.  		

ENG SE 714: Advanced Stochastic Modeling and Simulation
           			Introduction to Markov chains, point processes, diffusion processes as models of stochastic systems of practical interest. The course focuses on numerical and simulation methods for performance evaluation, optimization, and control of such systems.  Meets with ENGME714.  Students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG SE 724: Advanced Optimization Theory and Methods
           			Complements ENGEC524 by introducing advanced optimization techniques. Emphasis on nonlinear optimization and recent developments in the field. Topics include: unconstrained optimization methods such as gradient and incremental gradient, conjugate direction, Newton and quasi-Newton methods; constrained optimization methods such as projection, feasible directions, barrier and interior point methods; duality; and stochastic approximation algorithms.  Introduction to modern convex optimization including semi-definite programming, conic programming, and robust optimization.  Applications drawn from control, production and capacity planning, resource allocation, communication and sensor networks, and bioinformatics.  Meets with ENGEC724 and ENGME724.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG SE 725: Queueing Systems
           			Performance modeling using queueing networks, analysis of product form and non-product form networks, numerical methods for performance evaluation, approximate models of queueing systems, optimal design and control of queueing networks. Applications from manufacturing systems, computer systems and communication networks. Meets with ENGEC725 and ENGME725.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG SE 732: Combinatorial Optimization and Graph Algorithms
           			Design data structures and efficient algorithms for priority queues, minimum spanning trees, searching in graphs, strongly connected components, shortest paths, maximum matching, and maximum network flow. Some discussion of intractable problems and distributed network algorithms. Meets with ENGME732.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG SE 733: Discrete Event and Hybrid Systems
           			Review of system theory fundamentals distinguishing between time-driven and event-driven dynamics.  Modeling of Discrete Event and Hybrid Systems; Automata, Hybrid Automata, Petri Nets, basic queueing models, and stochastic flow models.  Monte Carlo computer simulation:  basic structure and output analysis.  Analysis, control, and optimization techniques based on Markov Decision Process theory with applications to scheduling, resource allocation, and games of chance.  Perturbation Analysis and Rapid Learning methods with applications to communication networks, manufacturing systems, and command-control.  Meets with ENGEC733 and ENGME733.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG SE 734: Hybrid Systems
           			The course offers a detailed introduction to hybrid systems, which are dynamical systems combining continuous dynamics (modeled by differential equations) with discrete dynamics (modeled by automata). The covered topics include modeling, simulation, stability analysis, verification, and control of such systems. The course contains several applications from both natural and manmade environments, ranging from gene networks in biology, to networked embedded systems in avionics and automotive controls, and to motion planning and control in robotics. Same as ENG ME 734 and ENG SE 734. Students may receive credit for one. 4 cr. 1st sem.		

ENG SE 740: Vision, Robotics, and Planning
           			Methodologies required for constructing and operating intelligent mechanisms. Comprehensive introduction to robot kinematics for motion planning. Dynamics and control of mechanical systems. Formal treatment of differential relationships for understanding the control of forces and torques at the end effector. Discussion of robot vision and sensing and advanced topics in robot mechanics, including elastic effects and kinematic redundancy. Meets with ENGME740. Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG SE 741: Randomized Network Algorithms
           			Probabilistic techniques and paradigms in the design and evaluation of network algorithms.  Review of basic concepts in probability, graph theory, and algorithms.  Tail inequalities and Chernoff bounds.  Ball and bins and random graph models.  Markov chains and random walks.  The probabilistic method.  Monte Carlo methods.  Introduction to martingales, networking applications: distributed content storage and look-up in P2P networks, IP traceback, fountain codes, universal hash functions, packet routing. Same as EC 741. Students may not receive credit for both.  		

ENG SE 755: Communication Networks Control
           			Systems and control perspective into communication networks research.  Fundamental systems issues in networking.  Survey of a variety of techniques that have recently been used to address networking issues, including queueing theory, optimization, large deviations, Markov decision theory, stochastic approximation, and game theory.  Topics will vary from year to year, depending on recent developments in the field.  Illustrative topics include: network services and layered architectures, performance analysis in networks, traffic management and congestion control, traffic modeling, admission control, flow control and TCP/IP, routing, network economics and pricing. Meets with ENGME755.  Students may not receive credit for both. 		

ENG SE 762: Nonlinear Systems and Control
		Introduction to the theory and design methods of non-linear control systems. Application to robotics, vibration and noise control, fluid control, manufacturing processes, and biomedical systems. Mathematical methods based on the theory of differentiable manifolds; non-linear control techniques include feedback linearization, back-stepping, forwarding, and sliding mode control. Additional course topics will include controllability and observability, Lyapunov stability and its applications, limit cycles, input-output stability, zero dynamics, center manifold theory, perturbation theory, and averaging. 		

ENG SE 765: Production Systems Design
           			Theory and applications related to the design of complex production systems. Simulation theory, stochastic modeling and control, and mathematical decomposition techniques are developed and applied hierarchically to combine production statistics estimation, operations protocol design, and capacity selections in an integrated design of complex manufacturing systems. Meets with ENGME765.  Students may nor receive credit for both. 		

ENG SE 766: Advanced Scheduling Models and Methods
           			Emphasizes basic methodological tools and recent advances for the solution of scheduling problems in both deterministic and stochastic settings. Models considered include classical scheduling models, DEDS, neural nets, queueing models, flow control models, and linear programming models. Methods of control and analysis include optimal control, dynamic programming, fuzzy control, adaptive control, hierarchical control, genetic algorithms, simulated annealing, Lagrangian relaxation, and heavy traffic approximations. Examples and case studies focus on applications from manufacturing systems, computer and communication networks, and transportation systems.  Meets with ENGME766.  Students may not receive credit for both.		

ENG SE 801: Teaching Practicum I
	This course cannot be used to meet the structured course requirements. Practical  teaching experience for an assigned course, includes some combination of running discussion sections, managing laboratory sections, providing some lectures, preparing homework and solution sets, exams, and grading. Attend  lectures/seminars on best teaching practices.  Total time commitment: up to 20 hours/week for one semester.  This is a 4 credit course.		

ENG SE 802: Teaching Practicum II
	This course cannot be used to meet the structured course requirements. Practical teaching experience for an assigned course, including some combination of running discussion sections, managing laboratory sections, providing some lectures, preparing homework and solution sets, exams, and grading. Attend lectures/seminars on best teaching practices. Total Time commitment: up to 20  hours/week for one semester.  This is a 4 credit course.		

ENG SE 803: Teaching Practicum I
	This course cannot be used to meet the structured course requirements. Practical teaching experience for an assigned course, including some combination of running discussion sections, managing laboratory sections, providing some lectures, preparing homework and solution sets, exams, and grading. Attend lectures/seminars on best teaching practices. Total time commitment: up to 20 hours/week for one semester.  This is a 0 credit course.		

ENG SE 804: Teaching Practicum II
	This course cannot be used to meet the structured course requirements. Practical teaching experience for an assigned course, including some combination of running discussion sections, managing laboratory sections, providing some lectures, preparing homework and solution sets, exams, and grading. Attend lectures/seminars on best teaching practices. Total Time commitment: up to 20 hours/week for one semester.  This is a 0 credit course.		

ENG SE 900: Research
           			Participation in a research project under the direction of a faculty advisor. If not leading to an MS thesis or PhD dissertation, a final report is normally required. 		

           			Preparation of an original thesis under the guidance of a faculty member.		

ENG SE 925: Grad Project
			

ENG SE 951: Independent Study
           			Graduate students may study, under a faculty member's supervision, subjects not covered in a regularly offered course. Final report and/or written examination normally required.		

ENG SE 991: Dissertation
           			Advisor and hours arranged		

