LAW BK 903: Financial Services Law Internship
	This course seeks to give students real world experience in the practice of  financial services law by immersing them in the day-to-day operations of a law  firm, financial services organization or regulatory agency. Students are  expected to work under the supervision of a lawyer and a faculty advisor who  will ensure that the students have a meaningful, relevant and rigorous  experience. It is expected that the Internship will involve a minimum of ten  hours workplace experience per week. The Graduate Progam will exercise its best  efforts to arrange internships at local law firms, financial services firms, or  governmental bodies. Participation is subject to availability of positions and a  matching of student interests with the organizations¡¦ needs.   Awarding of  credits will be on a pass-fail basis and will not be included in the student's  cumulative GPA. Credit will be based on reports submitted by the student. The  internship is open only to full-time students who are enrolled in at least 6  other credit subjects during the semester in which the internship occurs. Unless  waived by the Director, this course is open only to students who are studying  for the concentration in Financial Services Transactions, for which it is a  requirement.		

LAW BK 912: Introduction to the American Legal System
	This course focuses principally on three areas: (1) the use of case law as a  primary source of American law, including analysis of cases, reasoning from  prior cases, the evolution of case law, and the case method of teaching; (2) the  structure of the American legal system and selected elements of Constitutional  law, such as allocation of powers among the three branches of government, the  relationship between federal and state courts, due process of law, equal  protection, and other key concepts; and (3) a brief introduction to particular  private law subjects such as contracts, intellectual property, criminal  procedure and torts. The goal is to provide insight into the methods used by  American lawyers in dealing with legal questions and an introduction to the  structural and substantive legal framework within which American lawyers  operate. This course is no longer a required course for students who did not  obtain their first law degree at a law school in the United States. However,  foreign-educated students planning to sit for a bar examination in the United  States, especially the New York State Bar Examination, must take this course,  which is only offered in the fall semester.  		

LAW BK 925: Banking Structure and Regulation
	This course provides an overview of the regulation and supervision of the  banking and financial services industry under both US federal and state law  focusing on the regulatory structure, regulatory bodies and the principal types  of regulation. The course will focus on the legal structure as well as evolving  public policy behind the laws and regulations.  Recent initiatives to reform  bank regulatory systems including the Dodd-Frank Act in the US and Basel III  standards globally receive close scrutiny. Attention is also paid to the  regulation of entry, geographic expansion, capital, reserves, investments,  lending and interest. Traditional and non-traditional activities of financial  institutions and affiliates as provided in US federal law, such as securities  and insurance activities, mergers and acquisitions, and antitrust will be  examined. Emphasis will also be placed on deposit insurance, consumer protection  laws, bank examination/enforcement, bank failures and the duties of bank  officers and directors. Students are asked to compose a comment letter to a bank  regulatory agency as a means of exposure to the intricacies of administrative  law and to participate in classroom presentations regarding course subject  matter and current events impacting the financial services industry.  This is a  required course for all students studying for the Master of Laws degree in  Banking and Financial Law.		

LAW BK 931: Compliance Programs
	The course is a survey of the key areas of compliance.  The course will examine  implementing and maintaining a compliance program.  Topic areas to be covered  include: U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; the Office of Foreign Assets  Control; Bank Secrecy Act; Privacy; Investigations; Whistleblower Rates;  Information Reporting/Disclosure; Insider Trading Policies; Code of Ethics;  Audit; Conflict of Interest; Management Reporting; Internal Reporting/E- Discovery/Record Retention.		

LAW BK 933: Bankruptcy
	This course examines bankruptcy and related state law from the point of view of  secured and unsecured creditors.  The course begins with survey of individual  state law collection remedies and non-bankruptcy composition and liquidation  schemes.  The balance (and bulk) of the course focuses on the rights,  obligations and procedures created by federal bankruptcy law.  Topics addressed  include:  the automatic stay, the use and protection of collateral during the  pendency of a bankruptcy case, the avoidance of pre-bankruptcy transfers as  preferences and fraudulent transfers, the treatment of executory contracts and  unexpired leases, debtor-in-possession financing, asset sales and the  negotiation and confirmation of a plan of reorganization that is binding on all  creditors.  Finally, the course will discuss recent ¡§bankruptcy reform¡¨  legislation, which affects both corporate and consumer bankruptcies.		

LAW BK 934: Hedge Funds
	Assets being managed by hedge funds have grown significantly during the past 10  years. As a result, managers of hedge funds have been the focus of increased  scrutiny by investors, the press and regulatory authorities. This course will  cover the regulations (and exemptions) applicable to hedge funds and their  managers, including under the Securities Act of 1933, the Investment Company Act  and the Investment Advisers Act. We will focus on the formation and operation of  U.S. and offshore hedge funds, including structure, disclosure, risks and  economic and liquidity terms. This will include a detailed review of hedge fund  offering documents. We will discuss the many issues being considered by hedge  fund managers and regulators, including valuation, conflicts of interest,  insider trading and compliance.		

LAW BK 935: Microfinance and Development
	This course provides an introduction to the field of microfinance, particularly  its rapid evolution and role in economic development. Students will learn key  concepts including the study of lending methodologies, products available to  micro-entrepreneurs and the legal challenges, public policy considerations, and  risks faced by investors, technical experts and financial providers. This course  will also examine financial practices in the developing world such as payment  and remittance systems, which allow foreign nationals to transfer funds  internationally within and outside traditional banking systems.   		

LAW BK 941: Professional Responsibility
	This course will provide an overview of a lawyer's professional and ethical  obligations under United States law. It will examine the American Bar  Association's Model Rules of Professional Conduct, the ABA Model Code of  Professional Responsibility and the Restatement (Third) of the Law Governing  Lawyers as they apply to the practicing lawyer.  The course explores ethical  issues, and tensions and dilemmas that arise in the practice of law,  particularly in the representation of financial institutions.  Students will  have the chance to examine these issues through discussions of current events  affecting the financial services industry.		

LAW BK 943: Corporations
	This course focuses on the legal structure and attributes of business  corporations. Topics include pre-incorporation transactions, formation of  corporations, capital structure and financing of corporations, mergers and sales  of assets. The course will place particular emphasis upon the powers, rights and  duties allocated among boards of directors, officers and shareholders, as well  as the respective roles played by state corporate law (in particular, Delaware  law), federal law, and the courts.            		

LAW BK 950: Pooled Funds and Investor Protection
	Pooled investment funds, such as pension plans and mutual funds, are an  important part of the global financial services industry. This course is  designed as a survey of pooled funds and seeks to introduce students to the  common regulatory themes that are found across pooled fund types, and to  identify the unique approaches to regulation applicable to the various pooled  fund types studied. The course undertakes an analysis of the legal, regulatory  and fiduciary standards that apply to trustees, managers, advisers, and sponsors  of collective investment vehicles. The course focuses on the concept of  fiduciary duty as the basis of all trusted relationships, and examines selected  problems of investor and beneficiary protection in the fields of private and  public pension plans and mutual funds. It studies in detail two U.S. federal  statutes as examples of legal techniques used to mitigate those risks--ERISA and  the Investment Company Act of 1940 (including fiduciary duties, the role of the  fund board and management fees). The class then studies pooled investment funds  and investment trusts in the E.U., the U.K. and other countries, focusing on the  perceived risks and protective measures reflected in their legal and regulatory  systems. Not offered fall 2013.		

LAW BK 955: Securities Regulation
	A survey and analysis of key problems arising under the Securities Act of 1933,  the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the rules promulgated thereunder. These  problems include the form and content of registration statements under the 1933  Act, liabilities of persons designated in Section 11 and 12 of the 1933 Act, the  form and content of a typical Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Statement,  processing a registration statement, exemptions under the 1933 Act, the  underwriter's liability, the control person's "distribution;" regulation of  securities exchanges and broker-dealers, manipulation, stabilization, and "Hot  Issues;" tender offers; and civil liabilities under rule 10b-5, section 14(a),  and Section 16(b) of the 1934 Act. 		

LAW BK 957: Introduction to Project Finance
	This course focuses on the structure, documentation and negotiation of a typical  project finance transaction. The class will explore legal, financial, and policy  problems involved in investing in domestic and cross-border power and  infrastructure projects. We will focus on strategies and techniques of  structuring and financing such investments, and will touch upon the legal and  regulatory environment for investment, and in the context of foreign investment,  the role of political risk management and the implications of treaties,  conventions, and other relevant law. Selected domestic and cross-border  investment transactions, both actual and hypothetical, will be used to  illustrate recurring issues. This course may contain a graded group drafting  component where students draft and negotiate a loan agreement. 		

LAW BK 958: Transnational Lending and Trade Financing
	This course examines legal issues arising in debt financing provided by  financial institutions in international markets. The structure of transnational  loan agreements, guarantees, letters of credit, participation and loan sales  transactions, and basic instruments and documents common to trade financing are  examined. The nature of the documentation and techniques used in such  transactions, as well as regulatory patterns, legal problems and international  law reform efforts, are studied. The course also covers issues related to the  syndication of debt financing transactions, governing law, and creditor  remedies.		

LAW BK 960: Thesis Seminar
	This course provides an opportunity for students to conduct in-depth research on  topics covered in the program and to improve their writing skills. Each student  prepares a paper on a topic chosen in consultation with the instructor and  presents his or her findings to the class. Students edit one another's drafts  and participate in critiques during class sessions. A text and other materials  are used in discussions of effective legal writing. The seminar may satisfy a  concentration requirement depending on the subject of the paper. It is open to a  limited number of second-semester students with permission of the instructor. 		

LAW BK 972: Uniform Commercial Code
	Secured Transactions explores the "how-to's" of asset-based lending and,  particularly, the way in which a lender or seller of commercial goods on credit  protects its rights in the debtor's collateral under Article 9 of the Uniform  Commercial Code and the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The subject matter is approached  from the perspective of practice skills in representing a lender and a  commercial debtor. Students are responsible for case and problem recitation, as  well as problem solving in a team environment.  		

LAW BK 983: Central Banks, Commercial Banks, and Financial Markets
	This course introduces lawyers to the economics of financial markets and  institutions. Emphasis is placed on the interaction of commercial banks, the  Federal Reserve System, and monetary policy. Other topics include the  characteristics of financial instruments (such as Treasury securities, corporate  stocks and bonds, and secondary market mortgage-backed securities), how they are  priced in the market, the factors determining the level and shape of the  Treasury yield curve, and the relationship between commercial banking and the  growth of the over-the-counter derivatives market. Course grades will be based  on midterm and final examinations, and on written assignments. 		

LAW BK 987: Securitization
	Securitization and structured finance together constitute one of the most  dynamic segments of the financial markets. Securitization involves the creation  and issuance of securities backed by one or more assets which generate cash  flows sufficient to fund the securities. Structured finance includes  securitization as well as transactions in which securities are not issued, but  which involve the often complex structuring of cash flows to achieve a desired  tax, accounting or financial objective. These transactions often cut across many  areas of legal specialization, including bank and thrift regulation, securities  regulation, taxation, bankruptcy and insolvency, fiduciary law, real estate law  and environmental law. This course examines a series of actual transactions to  explore the sometimes contradictory ways that these various legal constructs  impinge upon the structuring transactions. Examples include single-family  mortgage pools, trade receivable securitizations and commercial mortgage  securitizations. This course also explores some of the more cutting-edge  securitizations of exotic asset classes such as legal fees, intellectual  property and renewable energy assets.		

LAW BK 988: Mergers and Acquisitions
	This course deals with key issues that arise in bank mergers and acquisitions.  Business and transactional topics include: merger and acquisition strategies,  deal structure and pricing, hostile takeovers and defenses, duties of directors,  disclosure obligations, due diligence, mergers of equals, social issues, tax  considerations, and accounting issues. Regulatory topics include: federal and  state approval processes, regulatory considerations in the structuring of  transactions, antitrust considerations, interstate banking issues, the Community  Reinvestment Act, thrift and other nonbank acquisitions, Glass-Steagall and Bank  Holding Company Act issues, and cross-industry transactions. 		

LAW BK 990: Government Regulation of Insurance
	The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), better known as health  care reform, is the most important  and controversial piece of federal social  legislation of this generation.  It is also basically an insurance regulatory  statute. PPACA establishes a new and complex set of rules governing the  operation of the health insurance industry, provides consumers with important  rights with respect to access to medical care and imposes obligations with  respect to health insurance on both businesses and individuals.  The course will  look at PPACA and the issues that surrounded its enactment--issues which  continue to fuel debate over whether it should modified or repealed. This will  be done as part of an examination of the regulatory rules that govern all of  insurance industry?s products (annuities, auto, home owners? product liability,  life insurance, etc).  The course also takes a look at the insurance industry?s  structure and financial performance and at the competitive interactions between  the insurance, banking and securities industries. The impact on the industry of  the financial crisis of 2008 and the resulting Dodd-Frank reform legislation  will be reviewed. 		

LAW BK 991: Commercial Lending
	This course studies the legal problems involved in documenting various types of  financing transactions ranging from short-term unsecured loans which are based  on the borrower's general credit to long-term, asset-based financings in which  the lender does not have recourse to the borrower's general assets. The  documentation process is followed from the preparation of the initial term sheet  through the rendering of legal opinions at closing. The major aspects of a loan  agreement, specifically representations and warranties, lending provisions,  closing conditions, pricing, covenants, and defaults, are studied in detail in  an effort to insure that each student understands the mechanics of a financing  transaction. The special legal problems involved in inventory and receivables  financing, project financing, construction credits, and leasing transactions are  highlighted. Subordination agreements, participation agreements, and other  inter-creditor arrangements are discussed. The provisions of the Bank Holding  Company Act that relate to financing transactions, bank legal lending limits,  margin requirements, and usury are considered. A discussion format is employed  to the extent feasible, and problems and illustrations are used to focus and  encourage class participation. The grade is based on a final examination, class  participation and a brief analytical paper. 		

