GRS PO 751: Approaches to the Study of Comparative Politics
			

GRS PO 756: The Political Economy of the European Union
	Meets with GRS IR 760. Investigates major issues of European economic integration, including the Single  Market and European Monetary Union. Explores the theoretical and practical problems of integration.   Considers the crisis of the Euro and its consequences for European member-state economies and  democracies.		

GRS PO 760: Problems and Issues of Contemporary Africa
	Topic for Fall 2012: Religion and Politics in Africa. The politics of indigenous African religions, Islam, and  Christianity. Topics include Islamist and Christian fundamentalist movements, religion and social conflict,  and religious engagement on democracy, women's rights, and gay rights. 		

GRS PO 768: Contemporary Issues in Latin America
	Meets with GRS IR 766. Review and analysis of contemporary developments in Latin America from major print and on-line news sources and journals. Focuses on breaking issues and develops capacity for critical analysis. Required for LASMA students. 		

GRS PO 771: Approaches to the Study of International Relations
	Graduate core course. Focuses on approaches and theories of international relations rather than international events. Compares historical, descriptive, normative, and scientific approaches. Surveys a variety of theories of international conflict (e.g., war, arms races), and theories of international integration (e.g., alliances, trade). 		

GRS PO 785: Comparative Political Economy of China and India
	(Meets with GRS IR 758.) Compares China and India's economic reform, focusing on their reform policies and government-business relationships. Examines their political development (or lack thereof) during their economic reform. Discusses China and India's rise and implications for the global system.		

GRS PO 789: The United States and the International Relations of the Asia-Pacific
	Focuses on contemporary issues in U.S. relations with Japan, China, Taiwan, North and South Korea, and Russian involvement in East Asia. The implications of social economic, political, strategic changes in East Asia for U.S. policy and the management of international affairs are highlighted.		

GRS PO 791: Approaches to the Study of Political Theory
	Graduate core course. An overview of some of the more significant opinions for the study of political theory today, with attention to both substantive and methodological issues. 		

GRS PO 796: Ethics and the Use of Force
		Acquaints students with the great debates in the ethics and law of war, and examines  how the resort to and conduct of war is, or is not, circumscribed by normative concerns.		

GRS PO 840: Political Analysis
	An introduction to methodological issues faced in empirical work across the social sciences, with primary  reference to political science. Addresses issues using different empirical approaches -- qualitative or  quantitative, experimental or observational -- to any sort of theory.		

GRS PO 841: Quantitative Research Methods
           			An introduction to probability, descriptive statistics, hypothesis testing, and ordinary least squares  regression analysis as used in the social sciences. Emphasizes both theory and applications. 		

GRS PO 843: Techniques in Political Analysis: Maximum Likelihood Estimation
           			An applied course in quantitative empirical analysis on maximum likelihood models of inference. Topics  may include hypothesis testing, linear regression, binary response models, ordered response models, and  event count models.		

GRS PS 699: Teaching of Psychology I
	Goals, contents, and methods of instruction in psychology. General teaching-learning issues. Required of all new teaching fellows. Yearlong course. 		

GRS PS 704: Contemporary Trends in Psychology
	MA and PhD proseminar. Topics vary. Descriptions available in the main office of the Psychology  Department.		

GRS PS 711: Statistics in Psychology I
	General linear models including multiple regression and logistic regression; multilevel models; survival analysis; interaction effects.  		

GRS PS 712: Statistics in Psychology II
		Statistical analysis with latent variables including exploratory factor analysis, confirmatory factor analysis, structural equation models, latent growth models, psychometrics.		

GRS PS 716: Psychological Research Methods
	The methodological foundations of psychological research, including issues in general scientific practice, research design, measurement, methods of data collection, and practical and ethical problems arising in the conduct of psychological research.		

GRS PS 721: General Experimental, I
		Experimental and theoretical issues in operant and classical conditioning and in verbal learning. Schedules of reinforcement, discrimination, avoidance, punishment, emotional reflexes, memory, and motivation. Selected lab demonstrations. 		

GRS PS 730: Major Perspectives in Psychology: History and Systems
           			Provides exposure to the history of major perspectives in psychology, increases understanding of  contemporary literature on fundamental issues in psychology, and promotes an integrated understanding  of the link between psychological theories and applied psychological principles.		

GRS PS 732: Behavioral Medicine
           			Examines applications from the social and behavioral sciences and the allied health professions as they are integrated within the practice of traditional medicine. Examples of interventional strategies, treatments, and procedures, including biofeedback and hypnosis. 		

