GRS PH 613: Kant
	A study of Kant's critical philosophy, focusing on one or more of his works.		

GRS PH 615: Nineteenth-Century Philosophy
	Study of the important themes in the philosophy of Hegel, Marx, Kierkegaard, and Nietzsche. 		

GRS PH 618: Marx and Marxism
	Philosophical foundation of Marxism and its development. Critical study of Marx's writings stressing questions of philosophy, political economy, science, and history. Emphasis on Marx's theory of relation of praxis to consciousness. Later (including contemporary) Marxists and critics. 		

GRS PH 619: Nietzsche
	A study of Nietzsche's philosophy, focusing on one or more of his works.		

GRS PH 622: Analytic Philosophy
	A survey of the basic works of twentieth-century analytical philosophy.		

GRS PH 624: Wittgenstein
	An intensive (line by line) study of Wittgenstein's Philosophical Investigations.		

GRS PH 626: Phenomenology
	Rigorous examination of the foundations of philosophical phenomenology in Husserl and Heidegger.		

GRS PH 627: Heidegger and Existential Philosophy
	A study of the main topics of Heidegger's philosophy against the background of his interpretation of Husserl's phenomenology, Kant's transcendental philosophy, and ancient Greek philosophy, with an emphasis on the concepts of being, time, and truth. 		

GRS PH 633: Symbolic Logic
	Study of methods characteristic of modern deductive logic including use of truth tables, Boolean normal forms, models, and indirect and conditional proofs within the theory of truth-functions and quantifiers.		

GRS PH 636: Gender, Race, and Science
	Examines issues in feminist philosophy, philosophy of race, and philosophy of science. Is "race" a genuine scientific category or a social construct? How have views about gender and race changed? Why are there still so few women and minority scientists?		

GRS PH 640: Metaphysics
	A survey of basic questions in contemporary metaphysics that may include reality, time, change, free will,  personal identity, and causation.		

GRS PH 641: Philosophical Idealism (Hegel)
	The course covers the development of German idealism in the mature Hegel.  Close analysis and discussion of Hegel's Differenzschrift.		

GRS PH 643: Philosophy of Mind
	The topic is sentience, embodiment, and the brain. The aim is to develop a "neurophenomenological" approach to consciousness and embodied experience in cognitive science and the philosophy of mind. 		

GRS PH 646: Philosophy of Religion
	An examination of the principal issues and topics in the philosophy of religion in the following two stages:  first, an historical overview of the  philosophy of religion as a discipline or subdiscipline of philosophy and theology; and, second, attention to the  problems and challenges facing this discipline in the context of the comparative study of religions.		

GRS PH 650: Types of Ethical Theory
           			A survey of basic ethical theories including those in the Kantian, utilitarian, and virtue-ethics traditions.  		

GRS PH 651: Contemporary Ethical Theory
	An examination of twentieth-century English and American moral theories including those of Moore, Foot,  Williams, MacIntyre, and Rawls.		

GRS PH 652: Ethics of Health Care
	Medicine and health care offer a unique opportunity to explore the nature of humanity and the world and to ask fundamental questions concerning the nature of birth, life, and death, and what it is to be a person. Readings from both classical and contemporary writings in ethics, medicine, law, and public health policy. 		

GRS PH 655: Legal Philosophy
	A critical examination of ideas about the nature of law, duties of obedience and resistance, and legal  interpretation, with an emphasis on modern theories. Because this course meets with a Law School course,  its schedule follows the Law School's standard academic calendar.		

GRS PH 656: Topics in Philosophy and Religion
	Topic for Fall 2014: Philosophy and the Future of Religion. Examines key questions in the contemporary  philosophy of religion, including the possibility of religion without God, "naturalized" or scientific views of  religion, religious pluralism, and inter-religious tolerance. Featuring visiting lecturers in fall Institute for  Philosophy and Religion lecture series. Also offered as GRS RN 697.		

GRS PH 657: Action, Interpretation, and Narrative
	What is the relationship between understanding behavior and understanding texts? What is the role of narrative in interpretation? Using philosophical reflections on narrative from Plato to MacIntyre, the course studies philosophy and tragedy as two--perhaps antithetical--traditions of interpretation. 		

