GRS CH 655: Statistical Mechanics I
           			Introduction to statistical mechanical fundamentals; ensemble theory, Fermi-Dirac, Bose-Einstein, Gibbs-Boltzmann statistics; computational methods, Monte Carlo, Molecular Dynamics, many-body quantum mechanical simulations, normal mode analysis; ergodic hypothesis, modern theories of liquids and biomolecules, thermodynamic perturbation theory, integral equations, Debye-Huckel theory.		

GRS CH 658: Chemical Kinetics and Dynamics
           			Chemical kinetics and reaction dynamics. Rate theory. Theoretical models of reaction dynamics: transition state theory, collision theory, statistical methods. Transport theory. Modern experimental approaches. Photochemical and photophysical dynamics, energy transfer, condensed phase and atmospheric reaction processes. 		

GRS CH 677: An Introduction to Evidence-Based Undergraduate STEM Teaching
	Online course with in-person faculty-led sessions. Participants learn about effective teaching strategies  and the research that supports them, and apply approaches to lesson design and assignments for future  teaching opportunities. Also offered as GRS BI 677 and GRS PY 677.		

GRS CH 699: Teaching College Chemistry I
	The goals, contents, and methods of instruction in chemistry. General teaching-learning issues. Required of all teaching fellows.		

GRS CH 722: Protein Chemistry
		Methods for determining the structure of noncrystalline proteins, including protein sequence analysis,  chemical modification, NMR spectroscopy and site-specific mutagenesis; case studies of the structure and  function of selected proteins.		

GRS CH 724: Special Topics in Biochmeistry
		Detailed analysis of special topics of research in biochemistry. Topics are determined by the instructor depending on interest and expertise. Subjects covered include protein analysis, mechanistic enzymology,  nucleic acid research, protein/nucleic acid interactions, and spectroscopic methods.		

GRS CH 741: Organic Spectroscopy and Structure Determination
		Spectroscopic methods in organic structure determination, with main emphasis on nuclear magnetic resonance. 		

GRS CH 744: Current Topics in Organic Chemistry
           			Instructors cover topics related to their research. Topic for Spring 2014: Contemporary Drug Discovery.  Familiarizes students with the process of drug discovery as it is practiced in industry, and discusses in  depth the key considerations, ideas, technologies and limitations that define the cutting edge of our  current capabilities.		

GRS CH 751: Advanced Topics in Physical Chemistry
		Current topics of research in physical chemistry. The course content varies with instructor.		

GRS CH 801: Graduate Research Methods and Scholarly Writing 1
           			Introduces beginning graduate students to the fundamental methods of research, presentation, and  scholarship necessary for a successful career as a graduate student, a teacher, and an independent  research scientist. Includes RCR (responsible conduct of research) training.		

GRS CH 802: Graduate Research Methods and Scholarly Writing 2
		Continues subject material of GRS CH 801 with more emphasis on writing.		

GRS CH 901: PhD Research in Chemistry
			

GRS CH 902: PhD Research in Chemistry
			

GRS CH 903: MA Research in Chemistry
	A written report at the end of each semester is required.		

GRS CH 904: MA Research in Chemistry
	A written report at the end of each semester is required.		

GRS CL 699: Teaching College Classical Studies I
	The goals, contents, and methods of instruction in classical studies. General teaching-learning issues. Required of all teaching fellows. 		

GRS CL 720: Latin Seminar
	Extensive readings in Latin authors. Specific topics may change. Topic for Fall 2014: Writing the Empire,  Writing the Self: Tacitus in His Early Imperial Context. Examines the primary texts and current research on  the formation of concepts related to imperial rule and selfhood in the early Roman empire.		

GRS CL 791: Greek Seminar
	Topic for Spring 2015: TBA.		

GRS CL 957: Dir Study Latin
			

GRS CL 958: Dir Study Latin
			

