GRS AN 705: Graduate Proseminar in Anthropology:  the Biological and Historical Past
	Examination of major contributions and debates in biological anthropology focusing on humanity's place in the natural world.  Topics include evolutionary theory, fossil and living primates, human evolution, historical demography, human life histories, and the relationship between biology and culture.		

GRS AN 707: Turkey &amp; Middle East Perspective (Area)
	Social and cultural diversity of the modern Middle East with particular attention to Turkey.  Focus on the interplay of traditions and socio-economic changes that have occurred during the 20th century and their implications for the future.		

GRS AN 708: Food, Culture, and Society
	Study of foodways, culinary social history, diet and food ecology with special attention to Asian societies and Boston's food culture. Examines the use of food and cuisine as a focus for identity, national development, and social change. 		

GRS AN 709: Boston: An Ethnographic Approach
	An anthropological study of Boston using the city as a site of recovery and discovery as students develop  ethnographic skills and an understanding of the interplay between geography, history, and demography in  the social mapping of urban spaces.		

GRS AN 710: Studies in North American Ethnography
		A survey including an appreciation of the traditional background and heritage of native North Americans,  an analysis of the history and contact with Europeans and governmental policies, and an examination and  evaluation of the contemporary situation.		

GRS AN 711: Civil Society and the State
	Focuses on the civil society-state nexus. Features an interdisciplinary critical analysis of  the civil society contruct, including its value for understanding democratization and  liberalization in developing areas, as well as its role in mature democracies. 		

GRS AN 716: Contemporary European Ethnography
           			Approaches Europe and European societies through an exploration of significant social shifts: the creation  of the European Union, the decline of the national welfare state, the rise of regionalist movements, and the  socio-political transformation of post-socialist states.		

GRS AN 717: Power and Society in the Middle East
		Peoples and cultures of the Middle East from Afghanistan to Morocco and from the Caucasus to Yemen. Focuses on social organization, family structure, the relationship between the sexes, and the development and maintenance of authority		

GRS AN 718: Southeast Asia: Tradition and Development
	Provides an in-depth introduction to the cultural traditions and contemporary development of Southeast Asia. Examines the contemporary society and culture through the optic of political and cultural history, so as to understand the "imaginative revolutions" that have shaped this region and are transforming it still today. 		

GRS AN 719: Anthropology of Muslim Cultures and Politics
           			Muslim societies are today being buffeted by a struggle over the forms and meanings of Muslim culture   and politics. This course examines this struggle, and its implications for religious authority, gender ideals,   and new notions of citizenship, civil society, and democracy.		

GRS AN 720: Women in the Muslim World
	A cross-cultural approach to the diversity and complexity of women's lives in the Muslim world, including  the United States.  Looks at issues such as gender equality, civil society and democracy, sex segregation  and sexual politics, kinship and marriage, and veiling.		

GRS AN 731: Human Origins
	Introduction  to human paleontology and methods for reconstructing the ancestry, structure, diet and behavior of fossil primates  and humans.  Survey of primate and hominid fossils, priimate comparative anatomy, radioactive dating, modlecular and structural phylogenies, climactic  analyses, and comparative behavioral ecology.		

GRS AN 735: The Ape Within: Chimpanzees and the Evolution of Human Behavior
		Introduction to primate social behavior, focusing on the apes. Examines how  chimpanzee behavior can be used to understand human behavior. What is unique about humans, and how did we evolve? Topics include diet, social relationships, sexual behavior, aggression, culture, cognition.		

GRS AN 739: Primate Biomechanics
           			An introduction to the physical principles and anatomies underlying primate behavior, especially  locomotion. Topics include mechanics, skeletal anatomy, primate locomotion, and the primate fossil  record. Emphasis on bone biology and human bipedalism.		

GRS AN 744: Modern Japanese Society:  Family, School, and Workplace (Area)
	Meets with AN 344.  Approaches contemporary japanese society through a focus on family, school and workplace.  the readings and lectures treat these institutions historically and in terms of the contexts they provide for the individual.		

GRS AN 745: Moving Experiences: Cultures of Tourism and Travel
		The movement of people across national boundaries as a cultural, economic and  political phenomenon. Examines voluntary border-crossing in its various cultural and  historical meanings as well as in the representations of journals and contemporary  accounts.		

GRS AN 747: Afghanistan
	Ethnographic and historical examination of Afghanistan's traditional social and political organization, ecology and economy, and relationship among ethnic groups. Civil wars and foreign interventions over the last thirty years, the current situation in Afghanistan, and prospects for the country's future.		

GRS AN 751: Graduate Study in Language, Culture, and Society
		Introduction to basic concepts, problems, and methods used by anthropologists in the investigation of relationships among language, culture, and society. Topics include language and conceptual systems, language and role, language and social context, and language and thought. 		

GRS AN 755: Religious Fundamentalism in Anthropological Perspective
	 Anthropological study of the global phenomenon of religious fundamentalism. A product of the modern world, fundamentalism is perceived as counter-cultural and anti-nationalist. Cases drawn from North America and Islamic Middle East, with special attention to women's interpretation of religion. 4 cr.,  2nd sem.		

GRS AN 771:  Political Anthropology of the Modern World
	Examines the concepts of political anthropology and applies them to the analysis of the origins and development of the modern political world.  Special attention to nations and nationalism, the state and modern development, comparative political culture, and urban and agrarian political change.		

