GRS EC 705: Introduction to Mathematical Economics
           			Matrix algebra, differential calculus up to and including partial differentials of functions of several variables, and maximization under constraint. Introduction to linear programming, difference, and differential equations. 		

GRS EC 707: Advanced Statistics for Economists
           			Application of statistical tools, covering properties of estimators, covariance matrix and correlation,  analysis of variance, hypothesis testing, likelihood functions, and likelihood ratio tests. Intended as  preparation for GRS EC 708. 		

GRS EC 708: Advanced Econometrics 1
           			Basic course of econometric theory for MAPE/PhD students. Covers the theory and applications of the LS  and ML estimators of the linear single equations models. OLS, GLS, and Gauss-Markov theorem,  autocorrelation, heteroskedasticity, non-linear estimators, distributed lags, errors in variables,  instrumental variable estimators, choice models. Introduction to simultaneous equation models.		

GRS EC 709: Advanced Econometrics 2
           			Advanced course for second-year PhD candidates who have a solid knowledge of basic econometric  methods. Covers estimation and simulation of simultaneous equation models and some selected topics in  multivariate analysis.		

GRS EC 711: Advanced Topics in Econometrics
           			Discusses, in an abstract fashion, approaches to estimation and inference that are most often used in econometrics, including maximum likelihood and method of moments; recent developments in econometrics that allow one to overcome some of the shortcomings in using the standard approaches to estimation. Main emphasis on cross-sectional applications with some mention of time series applications and further discussion of specification analysis and testing. 		

GRS EC 712: Time Series Econometrics
           			Presents standard theory of stationary processes: models, estimation in the time and frequency domain,  spectral analysis, asymptotic distribution, Kalman filter; VAR models. Also deals with non-stationary  processes and discusses topics such as: functional central limit theorem, asymptotic results with unit roots, tests for unit roots, estimation and test in cointegrated systems and models with structural changes.		

GRS EC 716: Game Theory
           			Introduction to noncooperative and cooperative games with applications in the social sciences.		

GRS EC 717: Advanced Topics in Microeconomic Theory I
           			Topics in advanced microeconomic theory to be selected by course instructors.  Critical analysis of key papers in the literature.		

GRS EC 718: Advanced Topics in Microeconomic Theory II
           			Topics in advanced microeconomic theory to be selected by course instructors.  Critical analysis of key papers in the literature.		

GRS EC 721: Topics in Development Economics
           			Examines the economic development of nations from the perspectives of their relationship with the global economy, to identify issues that are central to economic development in the world economy, and to provide analytical methods for analyzing these issues and formulating policy. Evidence on these issues from Africa, Asia, and Latin America are examined. Some topics to be covered: the role of international trade in economic growth; trade between developed and developing countries; public and private foreign capital; research and development and technology transfer; exchange rate regimes and capital flight. 		

GRS EC 722: Topics in Economic Development II
           			This course covers a range of topics on failures of markets and governance in developing countries.  Recent research papers including both theoretical and empirical analysis are discussed, including class presentations by students.  Topics include credit and insurance market imperfections; implications for investment, inequality and growth; social networks and social learning.  Models of political economy and government accountability, with applications to land reform, decentralization, education, tax policy, and role of the media.		

GRS EC 731: Market Organization and Public Policy
           			Analytical foundations of public policy toward market organization. Theoretical emphasis on imperfect competition, theory of the firm, and markets with incomplete information. Implications for policy in developed and less-developed countries. 		

GRS EC 732: Topics in Industrial Organization
           			Topics vary from year to year and may include the economics of contracting and the firm, the economics of regulation, and dynamic models of oligopoly. 		

GRS EC 733: Empirical Industrial Organization
           			This course studies the frontiers of research in industrial organization, and emphasizes connections  between theoretical and empirical topics. Two major areas are covered: advanced topics in auction markets  and static demand estimation.		

GRS EC 741: Topics in Macroeconomics and Monetary Theory
		Alternative views of demand and supply of money and financial assets. Analytical theories of monetary policy. Problems in the exercise of monetary policy.		

GRS EC 742: Applied Macroeconomics
	Empirical specification of macroeconomic functions including measuring variables, lag structures, and functional forms; estimation and simulation of multiple equation macro models; and use of models for optimal policy design and positive policy prognosis. 		

GRS EC 744: Economic Dynamics
           			Introduces the theory and application of dynamicoptimization and equilibrium analysis, with emphasis on computational methods and techniques. Covers discrete and continuous time models in both deterministic and stochastic environments.		

GRS EC 745: Macroeconomics and Financial Markets
           			For second- and third-year PhD students. Topics and approaches combine macroeconomics and finance, with an emphasis on developing and testing theories that involve linkages between financial markets and the macro economy.		

GRS EC 751: Topics in Labor Economics 1
           			A survey course that combines an examination of all the major fields in labor market analysis with a  comprehensive treatment of methodological topics. Designed to provide the tools necessary to begin a  thesis in the field. Topics covered in depth include unemployment, wage setting models, human capital  models, and labor mobility.		

GRS EC 752: Topics in Labor Economics 2
           			Considers models that explain the origins and persistence of differences in incomes between individuals,  groups, and regions. Draws on literatures in applied microeconomic theory, labor economics, development  economics, public finance, and social choice theory. Discusses topics at the juncture of economics and  sociology that bear on the theme of inequality.		

