GRS EI 699: Teachng Coll Ei
			

GRS EI 701: The Theory and Practice of Literary Editing
	An introduction to the theory, practice, and principles of editorial decisions, such as questions of  modernization, revision, and annotation. Featuring a dozen visiting speakers and attending to notable  editorial achievements.		

GRS EI 703: Annotation
		Studies in allusions, sources, dating, topical contexts, annotation as a part of the work itself, and marginal  glosses, among other topics.		

GRS EI 704: Editions
		A consideration of the major editions of an author or authors. Subject varies. 		

GRS EI 802: Advanced Topics in Editing:  Word and Image
           			An historical and critical description of the relation between printed text and forms of illustration in selected works dating from 1500 to the present day.		

GRS EI 901: Dir Stdy
			

GRS EI 902: Directed Study
			

GRS EN 699: Teaching College English I
	The goals, contents, and methods of instruction in English. General teaching-learning issues. Required of all teaching fellows. 		

GRS EN 705: Seminar: The Writing of Plays 1
		A workshop in the writing of plays. Manuscripts are read using professional actors from the Boston  community, and plays are discussed in class. Individual conferences. Limited enrollment.		

GRS EN 706: Seminar: The Writing of Plays 2
		A workshop in the writing of plays. Manuscripts are read using professional actors from the Boston  community, and plays are discussed in class. Individual conferences. Limited enrollment.		

GRS EN 722: Medieval Performance
	Introduction to performance culture in the four centuries before Shakespeare. Reads liturgical and  sacramental ritual, guild and court drama, civic and royal pageant, heresy trials, lyric poetry and song,  through terms developed by contemporary language and performance theory.		

GRS EN 724: Old Age in Early Modern Literature
	An introduction to the discipline and practice of "literary gerontology" or age studies through a survey of  Elizabethan and Jacobean representations of late life. Attention to relevant classical and continental  resources as well as modern critical contexts.		

GRS EN 725: English Secular Lyric of the Seventeenth Century
	Faced with authorial challenges posed by ascendant female writers, how did male poets in seventeenth- century England defensively conceive, construct, and maintain a "masculine line" in secular lyrics? Hetero-  and homosocial relations in Donne, Jonson, Drayton, Carew, Herrick, Marvell, Rochester, others.		

GRS EN 727: Restoration and Eighteenth-Century Poetry
	Major concentration on Dryden, Pope, Swift, Johnson. Students may choose other poets from a list  including Davenant, Marvell, Cowley, Philips, Behn, Wilmot, Killigrew, Prior, Finch, Montagu, Addison, Gray,  Collins, Smart, Seward.		

GRS EN 728: Hist/Thry Novel
	This course description is currently under construction.		

GRS EN 729: The Shelley-Byron Circle
	The "Satanic School": The works of Percy and Mary Shelley and Lord Byron, focusing on their association in  Switzerland and Italy, 1816-22. Works include Percy's Prometheus Unbound and The Cenci, Mary's  Frankenstein, and Byron's Childe Harold's Pilgrimage and Don Juan.		

GRS EN 730: Modern Long Poem
	The long poem as sequence, notebook, atypical research, non-novel, nearly genreless book: excerpts  and  sometimes whole works by Crane, Williams, Stein, Pound, Loy, Auden, Prince, Zukofsky, Olson, Hill, Howe,  and others, American and British.		

GRS EN 732: The Literature of Atlantic Modernity, 1700-1900
	A theoretical and historical examination of transatlantic literature, with a focus on capitalism, aesthetics,  and print culture.  Readings in Marx, Weber, Raymond Williams, Benedict Anderson, Paul Gilroy, Defoe,  Franklin, Wheatley, Equiano, Wordsworth, Austen, Irving, Bronte, Melville, and James.		

GRS EN 734: Social Difference and the Rise of Corporate Capitalism in American Literature
	Against the backdrop of recent scholarship, the course examines how Cahan, Howells, James, Wharton,  Dreiser, and Dunbar indexed materialism, philanthropy, literary marketplace, and cultural capital in terms  of race, ethnicity, class, gender, sexuality, and political ideology.		

GRS EN 742: Knowing and Judging
	What is the status of aesthetic and interpretive claims? Are they rational, cognitive, or calculative? Are they  expressions of preference, emotion, ideology, wisdom? Readings in aesthetics from Kant onwards,  including Cavell, Fried, Gadamer, Sontag, Jameson, affect theory, Digital Humanities.		

