
GMS BT 104: Medical Terminology 1
	Understanding medical terminology is fundamental for anyone working in the sciences. It is the language   of the technician or researcher involved in biotechnology, biomedical investigations, or clinical research.   Students learn the analysis and construction of medical words within a context of scientific concepts. After   the basics, students learn the anatomy and diseases of the following systems: male and female   reproductive, cardiovascular, respiratory, and blood.

GMS BT 106: Medical Terminology 2
	Prereq: GMS BT 104 (Med Term 1) or consent of program director. Continue building your medical   vocabulary as you learn the anatomy and diseases of the following systems: digestive, urinary,   lymphatic/immune and endocrine.

GMS BT 110: Introduction to Biomedical Laboratory Sciences
	Prereq: One semester of biology, two semesters of chemistry and BT 208 (Ess. Math for Biotech) or   consent of program director. Provides a theoretical and practical foundation in laboratory science.   Students are introduced to the scientific method, laboratory mathematics, chemistry, biochemistry,   cell and molecular biology, and immunology. Students learn hands-on solution making, electrophoresis,   protein quantitation and other commonly used laboratory methods. Emphasis is placed on lab safety,   proper handling of instruments, careful following of written instructions for lab procedures,   maintenance of lab notebooks, and data collection, presentation and analysis. Laboratory course.

GMS BT 160: Biotechnology 1
	This course introduces students to the basic sciences of biotechnology (cell biology, immunology,   DNA/molecular biology) and describes DNA technologies used in gene therapy and microarray technology   and in the production of recombinant protein drugs, antibodies, vaccines, and transgenic animals/plants.   The challenges of bringing protein drugs from R&D through large scale manufacturing and the FDA   approval process are also discussed. First half of spring semester.

GMS BT 170: Biotechnology 2
	Prereq: BT 160. Recent innovations in the fields of molecular biology, immunology and cell biology   have provided new insights into the pathogenesis of cancer, infectious diseases, and other intractable   diseases. The biotech industry has contributed immensely to this progress and has furthermore   accelerated the development of cutting-edge technologies that promise to deliver more effective drugs,   vaccines and diagnostics.  Biotechnology 2 explores some of the ways in which biotechnology has   impacted medicine. Students participate in this exploration through readings of recent scientific   articles, class discussions and library/internet research. Second half of spring semester.

GMS BT 201: Anatomy and Physiology 1
	Prereq: One semester of biology. This course provides a practical understanding of anatomic structures   and coordinates this knowledge with the various functions of the human body. Also explored are   regulatory processes that integrate cells, tissues, organs and systems. Topics include: organization of   the body, tissue development, cellular structure and function as well as the integumentary (skin),   skeletal, and muscular systems. The last third of the course focuses on the nervous system. The course   incorporates clinical material throughout, and laboratory exercises correlate with the lecture material.    Laboratory course.

GMS BT 202: Anatomy and Physiology 2
	Prereq: GMS BT 201 (A&P 1) or consent of program director. This course is the second half of an intensive   sequence designed to integrate the structure with the function of the human body. The course covers the   endocrine, cardiovascular, lymphatic and immune, respiratory, digestive, urinary and reproductive   systems. Students study these systems as they relate to homeostasis and clinical disorders. Laboratory   exercises on each system are incorporated into the course materials. 

GMS BT 208: Essential Math for Biotechnology
	Prereq: BT 108 (Intro Lab Math) or equivalent. This course prepares students for math calculations   commonly used in biotech/biomedical laboratories, and in BLCS courses such as  BT 110 (Intro Biomed   Lab Sci), BT 411 (Protein Purific.), and BT 454 (Cell Culture). Topics include scientific notation, metric   system, solution concentration, dilutions, and logarithmic scales. Some classes are held in the   laboratory so that students can apply math skills to solution making, serial dilutions and standard   curves. Students also develop strategies for solving word problems and explore the essential elements   of data organization, summarization and presentation.   Some laboratory exercises.

GMS BT 210: Technical Writing in Clinical Research
	This course introduces students to the structure, content, and regulatory requirements of documents   created for the clinical research industry. Students review the FDA regulations and ICH guidances for drug,   device and biologic documents, AMA Manual of Style Guidelines, and common industry standards.   Students also learn to compose study abstracts, clinical protocols, informed consent forms, and clinical   study reports.

GMS BT 220: Biomedical Instrumentation and Imaging
	 Prereq: BT 110 (Intro Biomed Lab Sci), BT 405 (Biochem), BT 342 (Cell Bio) and knowledge of molecular   biology. This course examines the scientific principles of life science instruments commonly found in   modern biomedical laboratories. Students learn hands-on the fundamentals of assay development   using optical instruments such as, spectrophotometers, fluorescent microscopes, plate readers,   bioimagers, and real-time PCR thermocyclers. Sound experimental design, including the use of   appropriate controls and consideration of instrument sensitivity, are addressed using the students'   own experiments as well as examples from the scientific literature. Students process their data,   including microscope images using computer freeware. Laboratory course. 

GMS BT 240: Current Good Manufacturing Practices and Quality Assurance
	Prereq: BT 110 (Intro Biomed Lab Sci). This course provides a detailed knowledge of the role of Current   Good Manufacturing Practices (CGMPs) and a Quality Department in the development and   manufacture of biopharmaceutical products. Topics include the goals and obligations of the Food and   Drug Administration (FDA), a review of the CGMP subparts, and the responsibilities of a Quality   Department in ensuring product quality. CGMPs are the FDA's minimal requirements for   manufacturing, processing, packing, and holding of a drug product. Emphasis is on understanding the   intent and practical application of these regulations. Topics include the regulations and historical   perspective, quality control concepts, case studies and examples of FDA enforcement. 

GMS BT 280: Computing for the Lab
	This course focuses on the development of computer skills essential to modern-day laboratory or  clinical researchers.  Statistical analysis tools and data presentation techniques are explored  using Microsoft Excel, while Microsoft Access is employed for data integration, organization and  storage through the development of databases.  Microsoft PowerPoint is introduced for clinical  research presentations and Microsoft Project Manager is introduced to prepare students for  clinical research project management.  Students survey existing bioinformatics databases and  tools, and examine how to integrate external data sources into their own research. A brief  introduction to current trends in computational genomics is also discussed.

GMS BT 305: Introductory Biochemistry
	Prereq: one semester of biology and two semesters of chemistry. Provides an overview of biochemistry to   prepare students for medical school or for advanced undergraduate or general graduate science courses.   Topics covered include physical properties of biological molecules; structure and function of proteins,   carbohydrates, lipids and nucleic acids; kinetics and mechanism of enzymatic catalysis; and metabolism.

GMS BT 320: Laboratory Automation and Robotics
	This course introduces students to laboratory automation fundamentals. Topics include: non-robotic   automated work stations; robotic workstations and systems; high throughput technologies and   Laboratory Information Management Systems (LIMS) for lab automation. Optimization of organic process   chemistry in automated systems (fundamentals of statistical design of experiments) are reviewed. Course   format includes readings and presentations. 

GMS BT 330: Medical Devices
	This course provides students with an introductory overview of the world of medical devices, from   bandages to defibrillators. Students explore what the applicable regulations are, starting with the FDA,   and how companies use these regulations to guide the design, development, and marketing of their   products. Most classes contain an interesting mix of rules, realities, and renegades, that includes a   unique component called, "At the Drugstore," where students focus an educated eye on commonly   found items on the shelf. In addition, students learn about jobs and career opportunities within the   medical device industry and how to gain entry into the field.

GMS BT 336: Bioinformatics
	Prereq: BT 413 (MolBio) and computer proficiency. Bioinformatics is a practical discipline that  informs basic science research as well as pharmaceutical development. The class is designed to  introduce key bioinformatic principles and provide many opportunities to put those principles into  practice on homework assignments and the term project. Key concepts of molecular biology will  be reviewed in the first lecture. Subsequent lectures will introduce bioinformatic techniques in the  context of a disease/application area-including infectious disease control, cancer, and next  generation sequencing. Data from validated public databases will be used to solve real-world  problems in class. At the end of the semester, we will look at exciting, new developments in the  field and grapple with contemporary legal/ethical issues in biomedical informatics.

GMS BT 342: Cell Biology
	Prereq: BT 413 (Mol Bio) & BT 405 (Biochem), or consent of program director. This course introduces   students to eukaryotic cell structure and function, and covers various cellular components -- including the   plasma membrane, mitochondria and the cytoskeleton -- and examine their roles in the cell. Additionally,   students explore essential cellular processes including cell communication and the cell cycle. The course   also highlights the unique features of some specialized cell types such as germ and stem cells.

GMS BT 360: Auditing in Clinical Research
	Clinical research auditing ensures that the rights, safety, and well being of the study subject have been   protected and the clinical study data are credible. Auditing clinical trial activities provides the strict   oversight of performance with the ultimate goal of having a successful submission and identifying   opportunities for improvement. In this practical course, students learn how to prepare and conduct   audits, write audit observations, create an audit report and review audit report responses. In addition,   students learn how to manage audits by an outside agency. Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines and   regulatory requirements are reviewed along with exploring the concept of a quality system and the   writing of audit program Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). Developing an audit plan is emphasized.   Group discussions and role- playing are used to develop practical audit techniques. This class prepares   a student for an introductory auditing position within clinical research.

GMS BT 404: Medical Virology
	Prereq: one semester of biology, two semesters of chemistry, and BT 110 (Intro Biomed Lab Sci). Focuses   on techniques used to isolate and identify viral pathogens associated with human disease. Covers the   biology, the immune response to viral infections, the genetics of viral replication, and viral pathogenesis.   *Offered every other year.

GMS BT 405: Biochemistry
	Prereq: One semester of biology, two semesters of chemistry. This course introduces students to the   fundamental biochemical principles that underlie cell function. Topics include the structure and function of   biomolecules, including proteins, lipids, carbohydrates and nucleic acids, as well as the metabolic   pathways involved in their synthesis and degradation. Emphasis is given to metabolic regulation and   mechanisms of enzyme action.
GMS BT 406: Cytogenetics
	Prereq: one semester of biology, BT 110 (Intro Biomed Lab Sci), and BT 413 (Mol Bio) or BT 436   (Genetics), or consent of program director. Advanced course designed for those considering a clinical or   research career in human genetics with an emphasis is on clinical cytogenetics (chromosome testing).   The course covers types of chromosome abnormalities, methodology, nomenclature and clinical   significance in pregnancy, birth defects, and cancer. Laboratory work includes basic blood culture,   chromosome preparation, banding, identification and karyotyping. The course also provides an   updated review of latest cytogenetic methodology and applications, such as FISH, comparative genomic   hybridization (CGH) and array CGH lab. Â&nbsp;Also offered at graduate level with consent of program   director. Laboratory course.		

GMS BT 407: Molecular Genetics
	Prereq: BT 110 (Intro Biomed Lab Sci), BT 413 (Mol Bio), BT 436 (Genetics) or consent of program   director. Advanced course designed for those considering a clinical or research career in human   genetics. Emphasis is on clinical molecular genetics (DNA testing). The course covers types of genetic   abnormalities, methodology, nomenclature and clinical significance in pregnancy, birth defects, and   cancer. Laboratory work includes basic blood extraction, DNA preparation, gel electrophoresis, capillary   electrophoresis, sequencing, identification and karyotyping. The course also provides an updated   review of latest molecular genetic methodology and applications, such as copy number analysis, chip   based sequencing and next generation sequencing. Â&nbsp;Laboratory course.		

GMS BT 408: Immunology
	Prereq: BT 342 (Cell Bio) and BT 413 (Mol Bio) or consent of program director. Cell culture techniques   and knowledge of genetics is recommended. This course emphasizes the molecular and cellular   interactions involved in immune response. Topics covered include innate immunity, antibody structure   and function; applications of monoclonal antibodies in biotechnology and medicine; gene   rearrangements in Band T cells; cellular cooperation and the role of MHC; tolerance; and   immunopathology (hypersensitivity, autoimmunity, transplantation, AIDS, cancer immunity and   immunotherapy). Lab techniques include Flow Cytometry (FACs), ELISA, cell proliferation and death,   and assays of immune function. 		

GMS BT 410: Essential Methods in Biotechnology
	This course is an integrated course conveying a framework of fundamental introductory concepts of   biochemistry, molecular biology, and cell biology, along with essential laboratory methods that are   commonly used by researchers in these areas and by the biotechnology industry. The overall goal of the   course is to train students for jobs in industry, academia, and the health care sector that apply or require   knowledge of these concepts and methods.  *Restricted registration to BioScience Academy students. 		

GMS BT 411: Protein Purification and Analysis
	Prereq: BT 110 (Intro Biomed Lab Sci) and BT 208 (Ess. Math for Biotech). Biochemistry and elementary   physics are recommended. Familiarizes students with the theory and application of many biochemical   techniques involved in protein purification and characterization, such as chromatography (ion   exchange, gel permeation, hydrophobic affinity), electrophoresis and blotting techniques. Students   learn to think critically about methodology, design a purification scheme, scale it up, and troubleshoot   an existing plan. Special problems with recombinant proteins are also covered. The laboratory   component includes a wide variety of conventional methods for protein isolation, purification, and   characterization. Laboratory course.		

GMS BT 413: Techniques in Molecular Biology
	Prereq: one semester of biology, two semesters of chemistry and  BT 110 (Intro Biomed Lab Sci). The   course is comprised of a lecture part focusing on the structure, function, and analysis of DNA and RNA   and a laboratory component in which students isolate, analyze, and manipulate DNA and RNA in the   test tube. Experiments include the isolation of genomic DNA and RNA, followed by their analysis   through gel electrophoresis, spectrophotometry, PCR, and blotting techniques. Students are introduced   to recombinant DNA technology through bacterial transformation, plasmid preps, mapping of plasmids   by restriction digests, and purification of recombinant protein from bacteria by column   chromatography. The course also includes a bioinformatics component in which students use a web   platform to access various genetic databases, retrieve genetic sequence information and analyze the   sequences using free software for translation and restriction enzyme mapping. Laboratory course. 		

GMS BT 426: Medical Microbiology
	Prereq: one semester of biology and two semesters of chemistry. Provides the student with an   understanding of clinically important microorganisms. Students become familiar with the classification,   pathogenicity, identification, and prevention and treatment of diseases caused by bacteria, fungi, and   parasites as well as the workings of a modern clinical microbiology laboratory. Laboratory course.		

GMS BT 436: Human Genetics
	Prereq: one semester of biology and two semesters of chemistry, BT 342 (Cell Bio) or BT 413 (Mol Bio).   This course focuses on human genetics with a strong emphasis on the relationship between DNA   structure, disease manifestation, and inheritance. The course reviews the molecular mechanisms   underlying the flow of information within a cell from DNA to protein, population genetics, genetics of   immunity and cancer, reproductive technologies, epigenetics, genomics and cancer stem cells.  The   class includes lectures and student presentations.		

GMS BT 440: Genetics, Ethics, and the Law
	This online class explores the newest information and legal and bioethical implications in human genetics,   using audio-visuals, actual cases, discussions and lecture. Topics include: new reproductive techniques,   genetic diseases, prenatal testing and genetic testing, DNA fingerprinting, cloning, and DNA technology.   Online only.		

GMS BT 442: Issues in Assisted Reproduction
	This course addresses the legal, ethical and scientific aspects of Assisted Reproduction (also called  ART-Assisted Reproductive Techniques). The science of treating infertility has expanded amazingly in  the last 15 years, from the use of sperm donors to selling eggs on the internet. Assisted Reproductive  techniques are constantly changing and have given rise to many legal cases and ethical questions,  which this course will. This course closely examines these legal and ethical questions.		

GMS BT 443: Advanced Molecular Biology Lecture
           			Prereq: GMS BT 413 (Mol Bio) or consent of program director. This course evaluates how cutting-edge   technologies in molecular biology contribute to unraveling gene function and biological processes.   Students read, discuss and present original research papers about transcriptional regulation,   intracellular signaling pathways, cell cycling, apoptosis, cancer, and DNA repair. Technologies discussed   include microarrays, RNA silencing, inducible gene expression systems, reporter gene assays,   mutagenesis, use of green fluorescent protein for life cell imaging, the creation of transgenic and   knockout animals, the Cre/Lox system, and the use of biological databases. Great opportunity to   develop and improve your PowerPoint presentation skills. 		

GMS BT 444: The Business of Biotechnology
	This course provides students with knowledge pertaining to the scientific, political, legal, and ethical   issues that drive the advancement and innovation in biotechnology. Students learn how the various   drivers of medical biotechnology interact with one another and shape the business and finance of this   industry and impact its growth. Students explore intellectual property, R&D, marketing and other   issues including what shapes the public view of biotechnology. In addition, students develop their   creative thinking and analytical skills and explore their ideas of new vision of biotechnology through   discussions, readings, and presentations. 		

GMS BT 450: Forensic Toxicology
	Prereq: one semester of biology, two semesters of chemistry, and BT 405 (Biochemistry).  This  course explores the role of toxicology as a safeguard to prevent injury from environmental  chemicals and as a tool in the investigations of suspicious deaths. Case studies, videos showing  how forensic evidence is used in court and group discussions will accompany lectures and  demonstrations. Students also explore the role of legal and medical communities as well as  governmental agencies in dealing with issues. 		

GMS BT 454: Cell Culture Techniques
	Prereq:  one semester of biology, two semesters of chemistry, BT 110 (Intro Biomed Lab Sci), BT 208   (Essential Math for Biotech) & BT 342 (Cell Bio). This course gives students a foundation in cell culture   techniques used in modern cell culture labs. Topics  include aseptic technique, freezing and thawing of   cell stocks, passage and maintenance of cells, and culture of adherent and suspension cells. Emphasis is   on practical hands-on experience.  Upon completion of this course, students will be able to understand   and follow basic cell culture protocols.  Laboratory course.		

GMS BT 456: Endocrinology
	Prereq: BT 201 (A&P 1) and BT 202 (A&P 2) or consent of program director. This course presents an in-  depth study of the endocrine system, its glands and tissues. Students will examine the mechanisms of   hormone action and the pathophysiology of endocrine diseases.  Topics include: calcium metabolism,   the gastrointestinal hormones, the pancreatic hormones and metabolic regulation, growth hormones,   thyroid hormones, catecholamines and the sympathetic adrenal system, adrenal cortical steroid   hormones, and hormones of male and female reproduction. Laboratory exercises and clinical   correlations will be incorporated into the course.		

GMS BT 460: Drug Discovery
	Prereq: One semester of biology, two semesters of chemistry and  BT 405 (Biochem).  This course   covers laboratory technologies utilized in the pre-clinical drug development phase with emphasis on   the issues and challenges of molecular targeted therapeutics, a new paradigm in drug discovery. In   addition, DNA, RNA and protein-based therapeutics, and gene and stem cell therapies are discussed.     Students learn about translational technologies used to identify and validate drug targets, as well as   lead optimization and selection of drug candidates.  A hands-on laboratory component reinforces drug   discovery concepts.		

GMS BT 462: Drug Development
           			Prereq: One semester of biology, two semesters of chemistry, and BT 405 (Biochem). BT 575 (Design &   Conduct of Clin Trials) recommended. This course explores how drugs developed at the bench   transition to clinical testing and subsequently to the market. The translational approach in drug   development is discussed as well as current translational technologies. Topics include the molecular   and pathophysiological basis of select diseases; drug design; pre-clinical testing; clinical evaluation of   drugs; regulatory requirements for drug approval; and the frontiers of translational research. Lectures   are combined with discussions and presentations.		

GMS BT 465: Cell Signaling in Health and Disease
	Prereq: One semester of biology and two semesters of chemistry, BT 342 (Cell Biology) or BT 413  (Molecular Biology). Many pathological conditions such as diabetes and cancer are caused by  perturbations in signal transduction cascades. These cascades convert extracellular signals into  changes in gene expression and alterations in cell physiology. The proteins that participate in  signal transduction cascades interact in a dynamic, regulated fashion to form multi-protein  complexes that allow information processing. This course aims to present in a comprehensive  manner, the major signal transduction pathways, their cross-talk, as well as their contribution in  maintaining cellular homeostasis.  In addition, we will highlight perturbations of these pathways  that could lead to development of different diseases as well as the molecular logic that underlies  current and future therapies.		

GMS BT 470: Technologies in Clinical Research
	Prereq: 1-2 years clinical research experience or one of the following-- BT 540 (Reg & Compl, BT 560   (GCP), BT 575 (Design & Conduct of Clin Trials). This course explores the multiple technologies that   govern key aspects of clinical trial management and regulatory filings. Students learn how to identify   the various technologies that are used in the conduct of clinical trials, the regulations that govern their   use, and the issues that companies face in deploying the various tools. Students also examine a sample   company with a clinical portfolio and identify the timing, importance, and integration requirements of   the various technologies with emphasis on strengths and weaknesses associated with the conduct of   the trial. The course also includes an introduction to the use of social media in clinical trials.		

GMS BT 484: Advanced Cell Culture Techniques
	Prereq: one semester of biology, two semesters of chemistry,Â&nbsp;BT 454 (Cell Culture) and BT 413 (Mol   Bio) or consent of program director. Cell culture has become an indispensable tool for all areas of   biomedical science.Â&nbsp;In the course, students develop the necessary routine for work in a cell culture lab   by passaging cell lines throughout the course and determining growth characteristics under different   conditions. At the same time, students isolate and analyze biomolecules from these cell lines and   perform experiments using advanced techniques, such as transfections, reporter gene assays, as well as   a variety of optical assays (absorbance, luminescence, and fluorescence assays). At the end of the   course, students communicate their work and results during a poster session. Laboratory course.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
GMS BT 520: Biology of Cancer
	Prereq: BT 405 (Biochem) and BT 413 (Mol Bio) or consent of program director. This course focuses on   the cellular and molecular changes that underlie the development and progression of human cancer.   Students examine the pathways and processes that involve oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes to   understand how they can contribute to cancer. Complex interactions including angiogenesis, tumor   immunology, invasion and metastasis are studied as well. In addition,the course covers targeted   approaches to cancer therapy and the latest scientific research including cancer epigenetics, microRNAs   and cancer stem cells.		

GMS BT 530: Introductory Pharmacology
	Prereq: one semester, biology and 2 semesters of chemistry, BT405 recommended. This course introduces   the basic principles of pharmacology and several major classes of therapeutic agents, with attention to   their mechanisms of action. Issues of current and future directions in pharmacology are addressed   including the source of information about pharmacologic agents, the ethics of human experimentation,   the drug development process, and new biotechnological approaches to drug design.Â&nbsp;		

GMS BT 532: Histopathology
	Prereq: BT 104 (Med Term) and BT 342 (Cell Bio), or consent of program director. The goal of the course   is to give students a fundamental knowledge and practical experience of human histology, pathology   and the techniques used to study cells and tissues in the normal and diseased state. This course   familiarizes students with biospecimen processing and management at the organ, tissue, cellular and   molecular levels. By studying different organs and organ systems, including: gastrointestinal, breast,   respiratory, neuro-muscular, skin, brain, kidney and liver, students develop an understanding of the   normal and diseased state at the macro and microscopic levels. Furthermore, the course provides   hands-on experience, including: dissection, preservation, processing, microtomy, photomicroscopy,   macro-photography, electron microscopy, and archiving. Students apply their understanding of medical   terminology and cell biology. This course can help prepare a student for graduate work in pathology,   for a Pathologists' Assistant program or for a career as a histotechnologists in a diagnostic or research   laboratory. Â&nbsp;Laboratory course.		

GMS BT 540: Regulatory and Compliance Issues
	This course explains the regulatory requirements for health care products: drugs, biologics, diagnostics,   and devices. The focus is on U.S. FDA regulations and their impact on product development and marketing   with international requirements. Recommended for students in clinical research concentration.Â&nbsp;		

GMS BT 550: Clinical Data Management
	Introduces students to the technology, process, and responsibilities of clinical data management.   Students examine study setup, case report form (CRF) design, and the data life cycle, including data   collection, data validation, coding of adverse events using standard dictionaries (such as ICD-9 or   MedDRA), data review, and database lock. Data Management SOP's are discussed within this context.   An industry-leading clinical data management system (CDMS) is utilized. Students also explore how   new technologies, such as electronic data capture (EDC), affect these processes.		

GMS BT 560: Good Clinical Practices (GCP) in Clinical Research
	This course introduces the regulatory responsibilities of sponsors, monitors, and investigators   conducting clinical trials. Practical information and exercises are designed for the clinical trial   professional on procedures for ensuring GCP compliance from an industry perspective. Topics include   identifying and selecting qualified investigators, obtaining ethical approval to enroll patients, and   initiating sites successfully. The course also covers issues related to collecting required regulatory   documentation, verifying high quality data, maintaining study materials accountability, and reporting   serious adverse events. Group discussions and guest speakers help students learn the practical skills   used in the field.		

GMS BT 575: Design and Conduct of Clinical Trials
	Prereq: knowledge of biostatistics. This course covers basic principles and current methodologies used in   the design and responsible conduct of clinical trials. Topics include statistical design of clinical trials,   sample selection, data collection and management, patient recruitment strategies, adverse event   reporting, and compliance monitoring. Practical exercises include writing clinical research protocols and   informed consent forms, and designing case report forms. 		

GMS BT 580: Legal and Ethical Issues in Clinical Research
	This course examines the development and implementation of regulatory as well as ethical issues involved   with conducting clinical trials. Topics include: use of human subjects, privacy and confidentiality, conflicts   of interest, use of stem cells in research, federal laws affecting laboratories, and genetic testing of gene   and therapy trials. Students also participate in discussions on landmark legal cases affecting laboratory   scientists.		

GMS BT 591: Biomedical Externship
	for Fall and Summer 1 semesters.  Directed study for degree candidates only. Prereq: Consent of   program director. The externship is the capstone project of the Bachelor of Science degree in the BLCS   program.  The externship objectives are for students to apply knowledge gained from coursework, learn   new and challenging biomedical skills and procedures, and understand the purpose for performing   these.  In addition, students are expected to articulate the goals of their project and how their project   fits within the overall mission of the host institution or department.  Students also need to   demonstrate initiative and curiosity, and be proactive in researching and learning the science behind   their project.		

GMS BT 592: Biomedical Externship
	for Spring and Summer 2 semesters.  Directed study for degree candidates only. Prereq: Consent of   program director. The externship is the capstone project of the Bachelor of Science degree in the BLCS   program.  The externship objectives are for students to apply knowledge gained from coursework, learn   new and challenging biomedical skills and procedures, and understand the purpose for performing   these.  In addition, students are expected to articulate the goals of their project and how their project   fits within the overall mission of the host institution or department.  Students also need to   demonstrate initiative and curiosity, and be proactive in researching and learning the science behind   their project.  		

GMS BT 594: Clinical Research Practicum
	for Fall and Summer 1 semesters.  Prereq: 16 credits in clinical research and permission of program   director. Directed study offering direct experience with the conduct of a clinical trial. Student will work on   a supervised project within an approved clinical research site. 		

GMS BT 595: Clinical Research Practicum
	for Spring and Summer 2 semesters. Prereq: 16 credits in clinical research and permission of program   director. Directed study offering direct experience with the conduct of a clinical trial. Student will work on   a supervised project within an approved clinical research site. 		

MET AD 501: Business Communication for International Students
	Techniques for effective written and verbal communications. This course is a special offering for students for whom English is a second language. Departmental approval required for non-MSAS students. Prerequisite course: credits can not be used toward the MSAS degree. 		

MET AD 510: Mathematics for Management
	Provides and overview of fundamental mathematical concepts, with emphasis on the solution of word problems. Topics covered include quadratic equations, signed numbers, polynomials, graphs, roots and radicals, and basic concepts of differential and integral calculus. Prerequisite course which may not be used for credit toward the MSAS degree. 		

MET AD 555: International Commerce Regional Field Experience
	Enhances the theoretical regional business course (750 series) for a specific commerce area of the world. Course offers on-site experience exposing students to the region's geopolitical and cultural environment. Also examines business activities through lectures and tours of company and government locations as well as cultural activities.		

MET AD 600: Economic Development and Tourism Management
	Provides a market oriented, strategic planning framework to address a broad range of tourism and regional economic and development issues that relate to tourism industry development and growth. The interplay of private, public and government organizations is discuss as they relate to the development of a comprehensive tourism plan. The combination of theory and practice will prepare students to analyze tourism markets, assess area, regional and national weakness and strengths as well as the security, infrastructure/logistics, marketing and costs associated tourism. Topics include: importance of tourism to the economy, developing the tourism strategy, ecotourism, research and analysis, positioning and marketing, funding tourism and developing new attractions. 		

MET AD 603: Evaluating and Developing Markets for Cultural Tourism
	Cultural tourism in the 21st century is more than the traditional passive activities of visiting a museum, hearing a concert or strolling down an historic street. It has become an active, dynamic branch of tourism in which half of all tourists have stated that they want some cultural activities during their vacation. In this course we will introduce various themes of cultural tourism including the relationship between the Tourist Industry and the Cultural Heritage Manager, conservation and preservation vs. utilization of a cultural asset, authenticity vs. commoditization, stakeholders and what should be their rights and obligations, tangible and intangible tourist assets, the role of government, private industry and the non-profit sectors in tourism planning and sustainable economic development. We will examine these themes in different areas of cultural tourism including the art industry, historical sites, cultural landmarks, special events and festivals, theme parks and gastronomy. 		

MET AD 610: Enterprise Risk Management
	This overview course examines the management issues involved with assessing the security and  risk environments in both the private and public sectors in order to assure continuous system-wide  operations. The course studies the elements of risk assessment and operational continuity using  the project management framework of planning, organizing, and control. Students are exposed to  the role of the firm in crisis response and management as well as the terms, systems, and  interactions necessary to assure continuous operations. Topics include: the role and need for  comprehensive assurance strategy and planning; the security aspects of the firm; an overview of  the system-wide structure?as well as the organizations within that structure?designed to plan for  and respond to local or national crisis; the social and emotional impact on the workforce as well  as its effect on productivity; and the organizational infrastructure relating to national, regional,  and international compliance. 4 cr		

MET AD 611: The Social and Psychological Elements of Workplace Disruption
	This course focuses on the human-factor aspects of crisis management as they relate to maintaining reasonable business activity while facing continuity disruption, and the important areas of proactive versus reactive leadership during crises.  In addition, the course will discuss the leadership qualities that are essential during crisis periods.  The course will assist the student in understanding that, at times, the human resource elements of the workforce recovery may be even more complicated than the logistical ones.  In fact, the ?best practices? for mitigating the impact of crises/disasters on personnel are often not well understood or sufficiently prioritized.  Students will learn to appreciate that the reactions and needs of employees may vary and change over time. 4cr.		

MET AD 612: COO-Public Emergency Management
	This course examines emergency management from national, state, local, and family perspectives of prevention, preparedness, response, and recovery.  The course encompasses knowledge of the specific agencies, organizations, and individual behaviors in emergency management as well as the interlinking partnerships between/among these groups.  Areas of discussion include: responsibilities at federal, state, community and individual levels; guidelines and procedures for operations and compliance such as the National response Plan; Incident Command Systems (ICS); exercises; plan development, command, and control; communication; partnership development and maintenance; leadership; and numerous other elements related to effective emergency management.  The unique and critical roles of private and public partnerships are reviewed and particular attention is paid to the interplay and interdependency among national, state, community, business (public and private), and the individual.  4cr.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET AD 613: Enterprise Risk Planning and Compliance
	Students are exposed to the important issues relating to corporate and organizational security and  risk from both the perspective of systems designed to protect against disasters and aspects of  emergency preparedness should systems fail. Security areas of study include information  technology, terrorism, and other organization disruptions. Students study proactive risk  assessment through management risk analysis techniques and simulations. Students will be able  to design a company or agency global assurance plan, organize the strategy to make the plan  operational, and implement control measures to assess the plan's degree of success. The course  also provides explanations of legal/regulatory, auditing, and industry-specific requirements  related to compliance, control, and reporting issue sin business risk management. The role of  establishing and maintaining standards by local, national, and international agencies is discussed,  as is the importance of these agencies in certifying operations. 4 credits		

MET AD 614: Disaster Management
	This course takes concepts covered in MET 610 and MET 613 and applies them in more detail  mainly to the corporate-private sector environment. During this course, we will first review the  organization and processes necessary to effectively respond to and manage incidents, including  the transition from emergency response and incident management to business recovery. Finally,  the course will focus on disaster recovery, with an emphasis on technology recovery, an absolutely  essential but sometimes overlooked component of any successful corporate recovery program. 4  credits		

MET AD 615: Introductory Macroeconomic Analysis
	Includes national economic performance; problems of recession, unemployment inflation, and trade and budget deficits; money creation, government spending, and taxation; economic policies for full employment and price stability; and international trade and payments. 		

MET AD 616: Enterprise Risk Analytics
	Introduces students to the data analytical approaches used by business organizations to manage  their exposure to risk. Addresses three major data analytical pillars of risk management; 1.  financial analyses, which offer an overview of actuarial analysis used by the insurance  marketplace and the value-at-risk (VaR) methodology used by banks and other financial  intermediaries; 2. catastrophe modeling, commonly used in business continuity planning to  prepare for major emergencies; and 3. causal analyses, used by a wide spectrum of business  entities to risk-adjust their decisions.  Students will learn not just how the traditional and  emerging data analytical / information producing tools support the goal of minimizing the cost of  risk, but also the students will learn how those informational assets can be used to enhance the  organization's competitiveness.   		

MET AD 620: Environmental Law, Regulation & Sustainability
	This course provides a framework to study the global environmental problems and the direct impact on government, business, and non-governmental organizations in seeking sustainability. Students will be seeking resolution of major environmental concerns related to a vital balance between economic needs and environmental protection domestically and on a global perspective. Students will examine global concerns of climate change, ozone destruction, disposal of solid & hazardous waste and 20 major global environmental issues. 4 credits 		

MET AD 630: Financial and Managerial Accounting
	Introduction to the concepts, methods, and problems of financial and managerial accounting. Includes data accumulation, accounting principles, financial statement analysis, measurement and disclosure issues, cost analysis, budgeting and control, production costs, and standard costs. 		

MET AD 632: Financial Concepts
	Introduction to the concepts, methods and problems of accounting and financial analysis.  Includes accounting principles, measurement and disclosure issues, financial statement analysis, time value of money, cash flow projection and analysis, capital budgeting and project evaluation, bond and equity valuation, cost of capital and capital structure.  4 cr. 		

MET AD 642: Project Management
	The course examines the concepts and applied techniques for cost effective management of both long-term development programs and projects. Project management principles and methodology are provided with special focus on planning, controlling, and coordinating individual and group efforts. Key topics of focus include overview of modern project management, organization strategy and project selection, defining a project and developing a project plan and scheduling resources, project risk analysis, work breakdown structures, and project networks. MS Project will be introduced in this course to provide hands-on practical skills with the above topics. Mastery of key tools and concepts introduced in this course provides a significant competitive advantage in the marketplace. 		

MET AD 643: Project Communications Management
	To succeed in project management, you must be a strong leader and an effective communicator. This course examines the current philosophies of leadership as applied to project management and identifies various styles of communication and conflict resolution. Through case studies and various exercises, you will develop enhanced leadership, communication, conflict management, and negotiation skills. 		

MET AD 644: Project Risk and Cost Management
	This course introduces the art and science of project risk as well as continuity management and cost management. Managing the risk of a project as it relates to a three-part systematic process of identifying, analyzing, and responding is examined through actual case studies. Students learn how to manage the components of a project to assure it can be completed through both general and severe business disruptions on local, national, and international levels. Students learn the process of cost management, early cost estimation, detailed cost estimation, and cost control using earned value method. Students study in depth the issues of project procurement management and the different types of contracts for various scope scenarios.		

MET AD 646: Program Management
	Programs and projects deliver benefits to organizations by enhancing current capabilities or developing new capabilities for the organization to use. This course will provide a detailed understanding of program management and will present concepts that promote efficient and effective communication and coordination among various groups. Students will understand PMIÂ® program management processes and use tools that automate and enforce processes for managing scope changes, risk, quality, issues, schedules, resources, releases, and costs. You will learn how to design a program and manage program costs, risk, and communication within the context of Project Portfolios. This course is targeted to senior executives, portfolio managers, program managers and their team members, members of a PMO, customers/stakeholders, educators, and consultants. This course introduces processes and knowledge areas from three new PMI standards: Program Management standard, OPM3, and Portfolio Management.     		

MET AD 647: Project and Program Governance
	This is a comprehensive course on project and program monitoring, evaluation, and governance.  Students will also understand enterprise wide-project interdependencies and determine the  optimal pacing for a program to enable appropriate planning, scheduling, executing, monitoring,  and controlling of the projects within a program in the future. It covers governance and evaluation  methods that will be useful at various levels of large projects, including government and nonprofit  organizations. This course will help project and program managers, analysts, consultants,  educators, and managers in government, nonprofit, and private institutions to assess program  results and identify ways to improve program performance. Other topics include:  evaluation for  small nonprofit organizations; assessing and improving planning, implementation and  effectiveness; governance methodology and models; using evaluation tools and applications to  assess factors linking projects under one program and provide the best allotment of resources  between those projects; monitor complex, multi-project programs, and drill into current project  details; enable collaboration and stakeholder alignment throughout a project life-cycle. Other  topics include: creating a transparent and accountable organization with well-defined roles and  one that is based on transparency, resource allocation and decision making and enterprise project  management.		

MET AD 648: Ecommerce
	Provides a detailed examination of how businesses can successfully use Internet and Web    technology. Students are introduced to the concepts and issues of electronic commerce. Topics    include comparison of e-commerce procedures, payment mechanisms, applications in different    industry sectors, security, the challenges of starting and maintaining an electronic business site, as    well as a comparison with traditional business practices. 		

MET AD 649: Agile Project Management
	The course provides an understanding of how new Agile principles and practices are changing the landscape of project management. The course is designed to give project managers fresh new insight into how to successfully blend Agile and traditional project management principles and practices in the right proportions to fit any business and project situation. The course provides a deep understanding of Agile project management principles and practices in order to see them as complementary rather than competitive to traditional project management. Topics include: Agile fundamentals, principles, and practices;  roots of Agile in TQM and Lean Manufacturing; adapting an Agile approach to fit a business environment; planning and managing an enterprise-level Agile transformation; scaling agile to an enterprise level using enterprise-level Agile frameworks and Agile Project Management tools. 4cr.		

MET AD 650: Economic Development via Tourism in the Developing World
	Many branches of the tourism industry have become incorporated into the increasingly important economic paradigm of sustainable economic development (economic development while minimizing the negative environmental, social and cultural impact of such development) in both the developed and developing world. In this course students will visit a developing country and learn how the tourist industry has developed in that country, determine how sustainable that development has been and what are potential directions for future growth in the tourist industry.		

MET AD 655: International Business, Economics, and Cultures
	This course considers macroeconomic factors of relevance to the firm: aggregate economic activity, cyclical movements, and fiscal and monetary policies. The course reviews the problems of decision-making relating to demand, production, costs, market structure, and price, and provides an analysis of the interplay between governments, economic systems, labor, and multinational corporations (MNCs). Topics include: the basis for the existence, organization, and growth of MNCs; a comparison of major economic and government systems; areas include the impact on the firm's business transactions and trade due to taxation, regulation, legal environments and labor influences. This course additionally investigates the relationship between the interaction of national culture and development. Topics range from developing nations' rain forest and species management to pollution generated by developed nations. Culture, policy, and development are also discussed in relation to the impact of the business interactions (agriculture, fishing, technology transfer, etc.) among developing and developed nations.		

MET AD 657: Economic Sustainability, Development, and Competitiveness of a Tourist Destination
	This course allows the student to understand and learn how to develop and manage tourism destinations that have the capability to perform effectively in an increasingly competitive international marketplace in ways that are environmentally, socially, and culturally sustainable. Topics include: the evolving nature of competition and sustainability, dimensions of competitive destination and sustainable destination, the global macro-environment for tourism, the competitive micro-environment, core resources and attractors, supporting facilities, and destination policy, planning, and development.		

MET AD 660: Databases, Security, and Web Design
	This course presents a complete immersion into Web Technology, Internet, World Wide Web architecture, search engines, and Web page creation using the standard HTML language. Other topics include Dynamic HTML; scripting using JavaScript, VBScript and XML; server-side components such as CGI, ASP, and PERL. Develops knowledge and skills for both electronic commerce payment mechanisms and data transactions security of information and information systems within organizations.  Payment options for electronic commerce such as e-cash, SET, credit cards, systems design and methods of dealing with risks are covered. Other topics include: designing, implementing, managing, and auditing security at all levels; techniques for assessing risk associated with accidental and international breaches of security; ethical uses of information and privacy consideration; encryption; and digital certificates. (Not for computer science students).  		

MET AD 661: Marketing, Database, and Enterprise/Customer Relation Management
	The course focuses on solutions to manage and coordinate information and activities across an enterprise. The course reviews a framework to manage an effective program including the design, development, implementation and maintenance of a corporate ERM/CRM process. The course additionally provides lab work in the design and implementation of ERM/CRM database information systems. The lectures and assigned readings cover the ERM/CRM architectures; technologies and best practices and a team project will allow all participants to use a set of frameworks and tools to demonstrate their strategic, operational and technical understanding of ERM/CRM initiatives. 		

MET AD 665: Supply Chain Management
	Provides an overview of the supply chain management process relating to the major, and often competing, supply chain challenges concerning the simultaneous standardization and differentiation of consumer preferences for products and the continued minimization emphasis in supply chains. Topics evolve from historical supply chains that focused on efficiencies and execution to more competitive strategy oriented chains that involve getting the ?right? products to the consumer/marketplace at the right quality/price and quantity.  		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET AD 667: Innovation, Global Competitiveness, and National Economic Development
	Examines various approaches to developing high tech innovation based economies as a route to self sufficiency and growth. Factors studied include both structural reforms in the political, legal and economic areas, and government sponsored initiatives in higher education, basic research, private venture capital, grants to support new product development by promising ventures, and the creation of science and technology parks and incubators. Students independently research, write, and present studies of the strategies of various countries. This will be augmented by case studies, reading, and guest speakers on strategies being employed in such countries as Taiwan, Thailand, and Brazil.		

MET AD 670: Creative Multimedia: Tools, Design, and Application
           			Introduces creative aspects of Web design using application programs such as Flash and Rixio/Adobe Multimedia. Students will have an opportunity to develop applications that integrate text content with video, digital photographs, computer animation, and computer graphics for website enhancement. This course will also focus on the exploration of a range of issues such as principles of good Web design and use of multimedia/Flash in major business applications. Students will create projects that integrate digital media, digital sound, and computer animation for e-learning, e-commerce, and related application areas.		

MET AD 671: Business Analytics Foundations
	Students will learn how to use data effectively to drive rapid, precise, and profitable analytics-based  decisions. The framework of using interlinked data-inputs, analytics models, and decision-support  tools will be applied within a proprietary business analytics shell and demonstrated with examples  from different functional areas of the enterprise.		

MET AD 673: Corporate and Social Responsibility
	The course provides an introduction to the main concepts of Global Responsibility and its impact  on management. It addresses many issues surrounding what are commonly referred to as  Corporate and Social Responsibility as well as the issues of related sustainability. The course  covers topics such as: Marketing, Finance, ethics, Risk Assessment, Communication and Strategy.  The course is designed to help understand why corporate social responsibility is important in the  public and private sectors and enable students to examine how the organizational can be  impacted by CSR.		

MET AD 680: Global Supply Chains
	This course analyzes the managerial activities required to support manufacturing and service  industry international strategies to assure that that products/services are delivered/provided in  the quality and timely manner expected through the use of global supply chains, outsourcing  relationships and multi-country operations. The course focuses on contemporary strategic issues  that affect both large and small corporations and includes: the strategic role of the internet,  international trade and logistics, cross cultural teaming, supply chain dynamics, information  management, inventory scheduling and control, international coordination and transportation and  customer service. 4cr.       		

MET AD 682: Risk Assessment and Security Management
MET AD 683: Infrastructure and Logistical Planning for Tourism Development
	The course provides an in depth examination of the role of infrastructure and logistics in economic and tourism development. Students are exposed to national and international examples of infrastructure and logistics models as they related to the successful, or unsuccessful, attempts to initiate economic/tourism development, growth and/or maintenance. The problems and challenges facing private firms and governments as they attempt to integrate economic development and growth into an existing culture and environment are presented. The role of national, regional and local infrastructures is discussed as they relate to an intergraded economic development plan. The use, types and importance of infrastructure is presented, as are methods to develop models to assess needs and resource allocation.		

MET AD 700: Strategic Management in Health Care Services
	This course will look at the fundamental problems and issues facing providers of health care in the United States.  Major topics will include: Managed Care, Capitation, Medicare & Medicaid reimbursement, consolidation & market share strategy, and managing quality in a tight margin business.		

MET AD 709: Case Studies in Current Corporate Financial Topics
           			Finance forecasting and planning; capital budgeting, cost of capital, dividend policy, rate of return, and financial aspects of growth. Readings and extensive use of case studies. 		

MET AD 711: Leadership and Strategy
	This course focuses on the role of the leadership of a corporation in determining and implementing the corporation?s strategy. Through the analysis and the discussion in class of a number of cases, the leadership styles, approaches and methods will be studied, as well as the implications for the strategies of the corporations concerned, and the resulting successes or failures.   		

MET AD 712: Financial Markets and Institutions
	Investigation and analysis of organization, structure, and performance of U.S. money and capital markets, and institutions. Examines regulation of the financial industry and the role of financial instruments. 		

MET AD 713: Derivative Securities and Markets
           			Provides an overview of operation, mechanics, and structure of the derivative markets and covers the concepts of options and futures pricing, arbitrage, and risk management. Emphasizes the theory of risk management and hedging opportunities offered by derivative securities. 		

MET AD 714: Mergers and Acquisitions
	This course examines the process by which takeovers and other corporate control transactions take place. Of particular interest will be the defensive measures by management against hostile bids, buyout transactions, the relation of takeovers to capital structure changes, and the insider trading in takeover contests. 		

MET AD 715: Quantitative and Qualitative Decision-Making
	Explores decision making and policy formulation in organizations. Includes goal setting and the planning process, rational models of decision making, evaluation of alternatives, prediction of outcomes, cost-benefit analysis, decision trees, uncertainty and risk assessment, and procedures for evaluation of outcomes. 		

MET AD 716: Managing Financial Institutions
           			Course acquaints the student with the role of financial management in the new broad financial service industry. Topics include the changing legal/regulatory environment in which financial institutions operate liquidity and reserve positions, assist-liability management marketing issues as well as the tools necessary for managing financial institutions. 		

MET AD 717: Investment Analysis and Portfolio Management
           			Mechanics of securities markets, types of available investments, and an introduction to determination of securities values. Problems of investment policy are approached through studies of portfolio selection methods and the valuation of special classes of securities (e.g., growth stocks).		

MET AD 718: Overview of Mutual Funds Industry
           			Provides a comprehensive review of the operations of the mutual funds industry. The organization and management of a mutual funds firm, back office operations, accounting procedures and marketing processes are covered in depth. The course provides a historical context of mutual funds, their development and role of mutual funds in private, corporate and retirement accounts. 		

MET AD 720: Organizational Communication
	Theory and techniques for effective verbal and nonverbal communication in professional environments. Emphasis on application of communication theory in practical assignments and critique of student work.		

MET AD 722: Legal and Regulatory Issues in the Financial Industry
	A review of the legal and regulatory issues that govern the financial industry. The course reviews SEC regulations as well as the financial legal environments that affect the financial system, the operations of financial firms and protect shareholders and company employees. The course provides a historical context in which the legal and regulatory systems have evolved and relates that history to today's complex financial environment.		

MET AD 725: Negotiations and Organizational Conflict Resolution
	A communications skills course designed to better understand the nature of conflict and its resolution through persuasion, collaboration, and negotiation. Students will learn theories of interpersonal and organizational conflict and its resolution as applied to personal, corporate, historical, and political contexts. Students will assess their own styles, skills, and values, and develop techniques to better resolve disputes, achieve objectives, and exert influence. 		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET AD 728: Understanding and Managing Heritage Tourism
	This course will examine the special characteristics of heritage tourism: how it differs from other forms of tourism in terms of product definition, development, audience, management, ethics, and relation to the local, national, and international communities. Topics will include historic preservation, product presentation and interpretation, and issues of sustainability and place-making. 		

MET AD 731: Corporate Finance
           			Emphasizes issues of accounting, finance, and economics that are important in most management contexts. Stresses understanding financial statements, planning and control, cost and benefit evaluation, cash flow analysis, and capital budgeting. 		

MET AD 733: Leadership in Management
	What does it mean to be a good leader? Can key elements of good leadership be identified? This dynamic course will start with an exploration of traditional and contemporary models of leadership, leadership development and management training. From there, participants will assess their own personal skills, preferences, aptitude and readiness to confront the challenges of leadership through a series of exercises, simulations and hands-on activities. Key elements of leadership, such as visiting, communicating, decision-making, team building and motivating will be studied and practiced. This course combines a thorough review of the theoretical aspects of leadership with the opportunity for "real world" applications through experiential learning.		

MET AD 735: Marketing in Technology-Based Industries
	Using case studies and lectures, this course focuses on developing appropriate market mix strategies and sound competitive analysis for the goods and services industries. Emphasis is placed on understanding consumers' needs and wants, the competitive environment, effective market communications, and proper positioning techniques. 		

MET AD 736: Statistical Analysis
	Statistical and mathematical solutions to business and financial decision-making. Basic concepts of probability theory. Data analysis centers on descriptive and inferential statistics. Sampling estimation, hypothesis testing, regression, and correlation analysis.		

MET AD 737: Innovative Marketing Techniques
	Marketing approaches have been significantly altered with the advent of the Internet.  This course provides a view of marketing for the twenty-first century.  Special emphasis is provided on the impact of new Internet marketing techniques, research using data mining and metrics, search engine optimization, reaching consumer markets through the new business models associated with social communities, blogs, and other Web 2.0 structures.  4cr.		

MET AD 738: Data Analysis and Operations Management
	Students are exposed to the statistical and mathematical solutions to business and financial decision-making. The course deals with the basic concepts of probability theory. Data analysis focuses on descriptive and inferential statistics as they apply to gathering and organizing information. It includes modern sampling estimation, hypothesis testing, regression, and correlation analysis. The course examines concepts and applied techniques for managing the operations and projects of the service or manufacturing firm. Operations topics include areas of demand forecasting, quality determination, work flow and control techniques, cost-effective management of both long-term development programs and smaller short-term projects. The course provides an understanding of the important element of operations (service or production) the supply chain management process. Material is presented that relates to the major, and often competing, supply chain challenges concerning the simultaneous standardization and differentiation of consumer preferences for products and the continued minimization emphasis in supply chains and inventory management. The evolution of supply chains is studied, from those that focused on efficiencies and execution to those that use a more competitive, strategy-oriented approach, getting the "right" products to the consumer/marketplace at the right quality/price and quantity.		

MET AD 739: Marketing Management
	Provides basic marketing knowledge and develops analytical and decision-making skills. Marketing tools, issues, programs, and institutions and their relationship to other management functions. Consumer behavior, promotional tools, pricing, distribution channels, product policy, marketing organization, control, and information systems.		

MET AD 740: Planning and Operating New Ventures
		Includes opportunity assessment and feasibility analysis, concept development, budgeting and financial operations, financial and human resource management, legal and organizational issues, role of boards and external advisors that lead to the writing of a business plan.		

MET AD 741: The Innovation Process: Developing New Products and Services
	Addresses the specifics of new product and service development and fostering innovation and technology to increase performance. Topics include generating and screening initial ideas; assessing user needs and interests; forecasting results; launching, and improving products and programs; bringing innovation to commercial reality. 		

MET AD 742: Program and Project Management
	This survey course provides an integrative approach to project management focusing on the skills that are fundamental to successful completion of projects. The course covers the project management life cycle, project selection and alignment with organizational strategy, project definition, risk analysis, work break down structure, activity scheduling, and resolving scheduling conflicts. The course examines the concepts and applied techniques for cost effective management of both long-term development and short term projects. The content covers planning, scheduling, organizing, and controlling projects, for example, product development, construction, information systems, new businesses, and special events. Management principles and methodology are provided as they apply to projects, with special focus on leadership, teaming, and coordinating individual and group efforts. MS Project will be introduced in this course to provide hands-on practical skills with the above topics. Mastery of key tools and concepts introduced in this course could give you a significant competitive advantage in the marketplace.		

MET AD 743: Managing Employees, Professionals, and Teams
	The course explores the issues that managers face when attempting to get work accomplished through other individuals or teams as they arise in organizations that employ numerous professionals and that emphasize innovation in their products, services, and internal processes. The relationship between individuals, organizations and the larger social context is studied. Focus Topics include: motivation, incentive systems, team and work flow management. The course discusses management techniques, effective verbal and nonverbal communication methods and negotiation skills as they pertain to the different aspects of managing individuals or teams. Successful managers have developed the ability to understand the nature of conflict and its resolution through persuasion, collaboration, and negotiation. Students will learn theories of interpersonal and organizational conflict and its resolution as applied in personal, corporate, historical, and political contexts.		

MET AD 744: Venture Capital and Financing Innovation
           			Provides an analysis of the economics of innovation and the means by which firms secure the necessary capital to begin or expand operations. Procedures for raising venture capital through investment institutions and individuals are discussed.		

MET AD 745: Global Competitiveness
	Reviews the process whereby organizations establish and pursue goals within internal and external  constraints, resources, and opportunities. Topics include strategy and tactics; the process of strategic  choice and adjustment; resource assessment; environmental and competitor analysis; stakeholders  and values; and strategy implementation, control, and valuation. 		

MET AD 746: Business Law and Regulation in a Global Environment
	Examines legal issues that affect high technology firms. Topics include copyright, reverse engineering, trade secrets, patents, international legal differences, the Uniform Commercial Code, and product liability. Cases drawn from high tech industries are used to emphasize current and future developments. 		

MET AD 747: Service: Quality, Delivery, and Productivity
	Topics include, the shift toward international service economies, the increasingly large service component in "non-service" industries, integrating service in the development of products and the critical role employees play in delivering service quality. 		

MET AD 748: Business Strategy and Commercialization in Biotech and Medical Companies
		MET AD 748 Addresses special characteristics of the life science and medical fields that affect the process of turning new technologies and innovative approaches into successful useful products and services, in such areas as gene therapy, diagnostics, and pharmaceuticals, medical imaging systems and artificial hearts, computer/internet based ?health care management information systems?, telemedicine, and bio-informatics/ genomic research tools. Emphasizes development of skills in assessing complex markets and devising useful ?business models? for cost effective commercialization and reduced time to market. Cases, readings, guest lectures, and group projects involving developing original commercialization plans and/or consulting to startup and established companies on these issues. 		

MET AD 749: International Economics
	This course involves the study of the foundations of the trade theory as well as modern international economics issues.  It utilizes a self-directed approach through computer testing, electronic interaction with the instructor, video-tape series, and a comprehensive research project. 4cr.		

MET AD 750: International Commerce: Central, Eastern, and CIS Nations
	Investigates the geopolitical environment and its relationship to business activity in this dynamic region of the world. The democratization of political institutions, reforms, and dramatic reorganization of economic institutions are discussed. 		

MET AD 751: International Commerce: European Community
	Explores the implications of the full economic integration of the European Community for those engaged in international business. Case studies, lectures, and projects addressed to corporations' multinational strategies to adapt to the changing environment of an integrated European market. 		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET AD 752: International Commerce: South America
	Analysis of the countries of South America and the trading relationships between them as well as the region's trade with other nations. Course provides an evaluation of the impact of the region's governments, economic systems, and labor on business activities. 		

MET AD 753: International Commerce: Pacific Basin and East Asia
	The fast-growing, newly industrialized economies of Asia are posting some of the world's highest growth rates. What does that mean for global management strategies? The cultural, economic, and political aspects of Japan's success are examined. 		

MET AD 754: International Commerce: Middle East
	Explores the geopolitical environment of the Middle East and its interaction with business.  This course integrates the cultural impact on trade via governments, economic systems, and local labor. 4cr.		

MET AD 756: Economics for Business
	Considers macroeconomic factors of relevance to the firm: aggregate economic activity, cyclical movements, and fiscal and monetary policies. Applies economic principles to the solution of problems in organizations using optimization procedures. Considers problems of decision making relating to demand, production, costs, market structure, and price. 		

MET AD 757: International Business Law
	Provides the student with an understanding of different legal systems as they relate to international business transactions. The seminar builds the analytical skills required to evaluate legal processes, law, and legislation-related events in international business dealings. 		

MET AD 758: Eco-Tourism
	The course examines the emerging area of eco-tourism in both developing and developed nations.  The issues discussed involve the purpose of eco-tourism, importance to GDP, infrastructure demands, return on investment, and the possible financial strains and returns to local areas.  The course provides a thorough examination of potential benefits as well as liabilities of eco-tourism to the region, indigenous population, and nation as well as who can gain and who can lose from such undertakings.		

MET AD 760: Going International: Importing and Exporting Operations
	Techniques and procedures for conducting international trade. The course focus is practical. Topics include operations, government agencies and import/export channel networks, and the evaluation of international opportunities. Designed to provide students with the skills and tools necessary for international trade. 		

MET AD 761: Comparative Economic, Industrial, and Governmental Environments
	Analysis of the interplay between governments, economic systems, labor, and multinational corporations (MNCs). Topics include the basis for the existence, organization, and growth of MNCs; a comparison of major economic and government systems: areas include the impact of the MNC on trade, taxation, regulation, and legal environments; as well as labor influences. 		

MET AD 763: Multinational Finance and Trade
		Applies the concepts of corporate finance to the problems of multinational financial management. Major topics include private and public institutions, foreign exchange rates, capital flows, speculation, analysis of alternative foreign investments, analysis of sources and uses of corporate funds abroad, multinational tax and profit planning, international risk analysis, and capital budgeting. 		

MET AD 764: Multinational Tactics, Strategy, and Positioning
		Introduces the student to the contemporary word of international business through an examination of the social, cultural, economic, ecological and commercial aspects that impact global operations. Emphasis is on both the thorough understanding of the effect that international business has on the different functional aspects of the enterprise as well as the manner in which firms organize, operate and formulate strategies in order to maximize their chances of successful operations.		

MET AD 765: Management in a Changing Environment
	The relationship between organizations and the larger social environment. Focuses on means for monitoring, analyzing, and interpreting the social environment; the effects of public policy on organizations; the development of management skills to anticipate and respond to social changes. 		

MET AD 767: Culture and Development
	Today the tourist industry is global in respect to the tourists wishes and destinations, i.e., tourists travel to other countries in part to learn about their peoples and cultures. To meet this large and expanding market many tourist companies have become either multinational or have formed working alliances with companies in other countries. This necessitates the need of people working in the tourist industry to have an understanding of cultures beyond their own. In this course we will examine different cultures and see how culture has affected economic, social, political and artistic development and its relationship to multi-national commerce and the tourist industry. Among the cultures to be examined will be: Western Europe, America, Middle East, and Sub-Saharan Africa.		

MET AD 769: Cultural Tourism and the Art and Festival Industries
	Festivals and events are found in all societies.  They are increasingly seen as unique tourist attractions and as destination image makers.  Ranging from mega events such as the Olympics to small community festivals, they constitute one of the most exciting and fastest growing forms of sustainable cultural tourism.  In this course students will learn how to plan, develop, and market festivals and events as tourism attractions.  4cr.		

MET AD 773: International Business Simulation
	Through the use of an international business simulation, students develop the ability to manage in the shifting international environment by integrating finance, strategy, and marketing skills to expand their company globally. By selling, exporting, or manufacturing in up to fourteen countries the simulation is intended to provide the student with a "real life" approach to international expansion, environmental stability, inflation and currency issues, financial operations as well as international sales and manufacturing issues. The objective of the course is to offer an overview of the factors affecting global business operations in a stimulating learning environment that is enjoyable and challenging. Intensive course.		

MET AD 775: Corporate Communications And Investor Relations
	The communications role of investor relations and corporate communications is discussed as it relates to all aspects of the company. The role of communications, channels of information, stakeholders, and legal/regulatory frameworks concerning information are the central themes of the course. 		

MET AD 780: Ethics in Management
	Those in leadership and managerial positions are often confronted with difficult decisions that have  far-reaching implications and the ability to balance competing social and ethical values.  This  practical course explores different ways of approaching challenging ethical dilemmas through  theories, cases, contemporary issues, and exercises -- and in the context of various cultures and  business and organizational settings.  4 cr.		

MET AD 783: International Investments
           			Topics include the concepts of investment and portfolio management applied to the complex multinational and multicurrency environment; analysis of international money, capital markets and foreign exchange markets, as well as foreign company evaluation. Students are exposed to the concepts and techniques of risk management, global equity investing, and the world's major stock markets.		

MET AD 790: Data and Transaction Security
           			Develops knowledge and skills for both Electronic Commerce Payment Mechanisms and Data Transactions Security of information and information systems within organizations. Payment options for electronic  commerce such as E-Cash, SET, credit cards, systems design, and methods of dealing with risks are covered. Other topics include: designing, implementing, managing, and auditing security at all levels; techniques for assessing risk associated with accidental and international breaches of security; ethical uses of information and privacy consideration, encryption, and digital certificates. 		

MET AD 800: Master's Thesis
		An extensive research project culminating in a written paper and oral defense. Research is conducted under intensive faculty supervision. Requires department approval and thesis supervisor from full-time faculty. May be credited toward concentration elective.		

MET AD 801: Master's Thesis
		The second course of an extensive research project culminating in a written paper and oral defense. Research is conducted under intensive faculty supervision. Requires department approval and thesis supervisor from full-time faculty. Considered a free elective.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET AD 810: Strategies for Electronic Commerce
	This course focuses on a variety of issues ranging from strategic marketing and the economics of electronic commerce to opportunities and challenges for the government. Students from various industry sectors have an opportunity to specialize according to their area of need. A variety of learning tools such as lectures, case studies, group exercises, and discussions will be used. The course exposes participants to the various strategic implications of electronic commerce.		

MET AD 850: Business Law
	Historical background of the judicial system. The principles of law as they relate to business transactions; law of contracts, sales, agency, and property; legal aspects of business organizations; creation, corporate structure, and dissolution; securities, regulation, antitrust and labor laws.		

MET AD 852: International Market Research
	Examination of major marketing issues affecting companies operating in a global environment.  Students will achieve an understanding of the economic, political, and cultural differences among nations as they affect marketing opportunities and operations.  Develop skills to identify and evaluate international marketing opportunities. 4cr.		

MET AD 854: Marketing Database Analytics
	The course offers an overview of how leading business organizations use transactional (i.e., sales)  and related data to shape their marketing initiatives focused on three core marketing goals: new  customer acquisition, current customer retention and marketing mix optimization. The overall  focus of the course is on showing how the readily available, diverse data types can be translated  into a source of competitively-advantageous, decision-guiding knowledge.  While the focus of the  course is on utilizing, not deriving data analytical outputs, students will be exposed to commonly  used marketing data analytical outcomes (e.g., customer segmentation, customer loyalty/churn  models, propensity to purchase or respond models, etc.). 		

MET AD 855: Strategic Advantage
	--		

MET AD 856: Market and Economic Research and Analysis
	The course is designed to prepare the student to undertake a comprehensive survey of the regional or national economic, social, logistical/infrastructure and attraction market to determine the most appropriate allocation of resources and strategic positioning. Students are exposed to the development of tourism and regional development plan, the basis for segmentation and target markets. The methods and tools of market and economic research are presented and the role/interplay of private, local, national and international intuitions are discussed as they relate to data gathering and plan assessment and implementation.		

MET AD 857: Marketing Strategies
	Strategic and operational marketing issues arising in the firm's operations. Topics include market screening, decisions, entry strategies, product/service development, as well as designing the marketing plan and its implementation. 4 cr.		

MET AD 860: International Advertising
	Concepts, theories and practice of international, multinational and global advertising. A thorough and contemporary study of the impact of globalization on marketing communications and particularly advertising. The environment of worldwide advertising, the advertising mix and worldwide management.		

MET AD 893: Special Topics: Politics, Public Relations and Public Policy: The Boston Harbor Clean Up
	Examines various approaches to developing "high tech" innovation based economies as a route to self sufficiency and growth. Factors studied include both structural reforms in the political, legal and economic areas, and government sponsored initiatives in higher education, basic research, private venture capital, grants to support new product development by promising ventures, and the creation of science and technology parks and "incubators." Students independently research, write, and present studies of the strategies of various countries. This will be augmented by case studies, reading, and guest speakers on strategies being employed in such countries as Taiwan, Thailand, and Brazil.		

MET AD 894: Strategic Advantage
	Strategy concerns the long-term direction, scope and performance of an organization within its specific  context.  While senior managers are normally responsible for strategic planning, the implementation of  strategy is most effective if managers at all levels ensure that their actions, performance goals,  resource applications, etc. are aligned with the efforts of other functions and departments, and with  the major strategic orientation of the firm. This module aims to develop critical understandings and  insights about strategy and strategic management at the business unit level. 		

MET AH 111: Survey of Western Art I
	This course examines the history of western art from ancient times through the Gothic Period in Western Europe.  Through classroom discussions, assigned readings, and, should time allow, museum visits, students will become familiar with the development of a variety of early forms of art.  With each new style or period, we will attempt both to describe the works themselves, and investigate the cultural, social, religious, political and personal contexts that surround the object.  		

MET AH 112: Survey of Western Art II
	Continues MET AH 111, but can be taken separately. Chronological survey of European art from the Renaissance to the present. Emphasis on the relation of art to its historical and cultural context. 		

MET AH 216: Basic Digital Photography
	Extensive practical application in basic aspects of digital photography. This course covers camera operation, image processing in black and white and an introduction to shooting color and color management at the end of the semester and the basics of Photoshop. Students will use their own digital 35mm camera. Single-lens reflex is standard. Cost of materials is approximately $200. 		

MET AH 233: Greece, Gods, and Art
	Painting, sculpture, and architecture in Greece from early times to the end of the Hellenistic period. Interrelationships among art, mythology, religion, athletics, and history. 		

MET AH 234: Rome, Emperors, and Art
	Painting, sculpture, and architecture in Italy and the Roman Empire from the Etruscans to Constantine, the first Christian emperor. Emphasis on art, engineering, politics, religion, and urban life. 		

MET AH 315: History of Photography
	This course offers an introduction to the study of European and American photography from its invention in 1839 to the present.  The goal of this course is to understand the development of photography as an element of material culture and as an art form.  The course will explore how a photograph communicates its visual message and its function as a historical tool.  Lectures will focus on photographic movements, specific photographers and how their work can be viewed as documents, cultural artifacts and as art.  In addition, discussion will incorporate theory and criticism of photography.		

MET AH 336: Medieval Art and Architecture
	This course represents an overview of Medieval Art and Architecture as it developed from late antiquity (ca. 400 A.D.) through the Early Renaissance (ca. 1200 A.D.). We will examine an array of famous Christian as well as secular monuments both in Western Europe and the Byzantine East, taking time as we go to consider each in terms not just of its esthetic features but also its essential political, religious, and geographical contexts. 		

MET AH 342: Masters of the Renaissance: Giotto to Botticelli
	The role of the artist and his work in fourteenth- and fifteenth-century Europe. Emphasis on the rise of humanistic thought and the shift from a God-centered to a man-centered society.		

MET AH 344: Artists, Princes, and Popes
	The artistic masters of the High Renaissance and their patrons, from Leonardo da Vinci to El Greco, with an emphasis on social forces and artistic styles in the sixteenth century. 		

MET AH 364: Architecture and City Planning in Old Boston
	Traces the development of Boston as an urban entity since the seventeenth century. Emphasis on Boston as a model for American architectural history from the colonial to the international styles. Surveys the city's history from English village to modern megalopolis.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET AH 370: Nineteenth-Century Art
	An examination of the new concepts of reality that grew out of the French Revolution, and how these concepts influenced the critical theories of Impressionist and Post-Impressionist art.		

MET AH 372: Modern Art
	Analysis of the work and thought of major masters of twentieth-century painting, sculpture, architecture, and photography, including the School of Paris and the New York School. 		

MET AH 380: Special Topics in Art History
	Program faculty selects seminar topics of current interest, usually with a singular focus, in the field.		

MET AH 389: Impressionism
	Detailed study of Impressionism from 1860s to circa 1900. Emphasis is on French artists, but Impressionists elsewhere in Europe and America are also considered. Discusses Impressionism's sources, Realist underpinnings, stylistic development, themes, and changes in the 1880s. 		

MET AH 395: Art, Computers, and Digital Imaging
	Introductory survey of digital imaging in the visual arts. Lectures and slides illustrate historical perspective, and hands-on studio sessions allow students to create and manipulate digital images. Emphasis on expressing personal ideas through new imaging techniques. 		

MET AH 419: Seminar: The Avant-Garde in the Arts
	The intention of this course is to offer in a seminar format, a combination of lecture and video presentations, outside exhibition review assignments, independent research, field trips, and classroom discussions.  The primary focus will be the fine arts and the related performing arts.  Artists often take on the ?hot button? themes and issues of contemporary culture.  Accordingly there will be presented strong images related to gender, race, religion, social and historical issues of war and conflict.  This is an important aspect of the basic approach of understanding, ?cutting edge,? challenging issues in contemporary art.  This material will be presented in an educational context but students who would potentially be offended by this imagery and its related discussion must consider whether it is appropriate to take this course.  A major area of study will be the manner in which contemporary art constantly evolves and changes in response to an ever-shifting world and how specific artists and movements have a particular and sustained influence.  		

MET AH 517: Seminar: The Art World
		An examination of the arts institutions, issues, and forces that shape the contemporary art world.  Topics include government cultural policy, National Endowment for the Arts, museums, symphonies, curators, critics, artists' rights, public art, corporate support, censorship, feminism and multiculturalism.  See also Arts Administration.  Stamped approval required.		

MET AH 598: Art and Popular Culture
	A survey of the visual arts in Cuba from the early twentieth century to the present, with an emphasis on contemporary art and an examination of the role of the artist in Cuban society. Work is discussed in its historical, social, economic, and cultural context. Students visit artists' studios, talk with Cuban artists and art administrators, and visit Havana's important museums and arts organizations.		

MET AN 101: Introduction to Cultural Anthropology
	A survey of the concepts, principles, and major areas of cultural anthropology. Comparative examination of institutions, processes of cultural change, and influence of culture on individual behavior in contemporary non-Western societies. 		

MET AN 102: Human Behavioral Biology and Evolution(N)
	Biology relevant to the behavioral sciences. Introduces basic principles of evolutionary biology, animal social behavior, primate adaptations, human origins, genetic/hormonal/neural bases of behavior, and issues of human socioecology and adaptations. Discussions highlight the interaction of Nature and Nurture.		

MET AN 210: Medical Anthropology
	This course in an introduction to the field of medical anthropology.  Medical anthropology studies the interactions between human health, culture and disease at the individual, community and populations levels.  This course emphasizes a biocultural approach to the study of health within the context of ecological and cultural systems.		

MET AR 510: Arts Leaders Forum
	The "Arts Leaders Forum" consists of a series of conversations with arts leaders, including entrepreneurs,  community leaders and established industry experts. Each week guests will share their experiences with  the class. In addition to guest speakers, students will focus on leadership skills and exercises through  readings and cases. The goal of this course is to give students insight into the pressing issues of managing  arts organizations, to gain leadership skills and to provide insight into career options. 4 cr. 2nd sem.		

MET AR 550: Raising Funds and Grant Writing for Nonprofit Organizations
	An introductory course that examines ways to raise funds from government, foundation, corporate, and individual sources. The following topics will be addressed through lectures and case analysis: the history of philanthropy, the planning and research process, proposal and grant preparation, program evaluation, and the role of the board and staff in developing effective fundraising strategies.		

MET AR 650: Writing for the Arts
	Arts professionals straddle two worlds, the world of the artist and the world of the manager. As artists, their job entails challenging the world; as managers, they must accommodate it. The course gives students the opportunity to develop written materials such as cover letters, resumes, fundraising appeals, press releases and exhibition and performance notes. Regular writing and critique assignments in a workshop format. 		

MET AR 690: The Art World
	An examination of the arts institutions, issues, and forces that shape the contemporary art world. Topics include government, cultural policy, National Endowment for the Arts, museums, symphonies, curators, critics, artists' rights, public art, corporate support, censorship, and feminism and multiculturalism. Usually taken as a first course. Non-Arts Administration students contact the Arts Admin Dept, 808 Commonwealth Ave.		

MET AR 700: Leadership and Career Development for Arts Administrators
	This course will cover both the theory and practice of effective leadership and career development in the arts. Topics will include negotiation and presentation skills, decision-making, consensus building, management styles, self-assessments, mock interviews, resume and cover letter strategies, and networking skills. Assignments will include experiential exercises, case studies, interviewing of leaders, public speaking, resume, cover letter, and mock interviews.		

MET AR 711: Capital Campaigns
	This course is designed to broaden the student?s understanding of capital campaign fundraising. Topics include: feasibility studies; strategic planning and budgeting; private and public phases; ethical responsibilities; staff, donor, volunteer, board, and trustee management; major gift solicitation; campaign communications; trend analysis; and evaluation. The course curriculum will include readings, case studies, guest speakers, and analysis of current capital campaign projects. 		

MET AR 720: Marketing and Audience Development for the Arts
	This course is designed to provide fundamental background in the theory and principles of arts marketing  and audience development used by nonprofit performing and visual arts organizations. Case analysis will  be employed to review strategies and practices currently used in the cultural sector. Students will be  expected to develop their own marketing plans for an arts organization. Arts Admin students only.  Prerequisite: AR690		

MET AR 722: Educational Programming in Cultural Institutions
	Course will review the history, theory, and practice of educational programming and audience engagement  in both museums and performing arts organizations. Emphasis will be on analysis of program design,  implementation, and evaluation; teacher training, and creation of youth and adult learning programs.		

MET AR 723: Individual Fundraising
	This course will address the full range of issues related to attracting financial support from individuals. Topics will include: raising dollars annually for operations, raising funds through special events (fundraisers), cultivating and soliciting major gifts, and the basics of bequests and estate planning as well as ethical issues and working effectively with donors and volunteers. Course work will include readings, case studies, and guest speakers.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET AR 730: Political and Public Advocacy for the Arts
	Political and Public Advocacy for the Arts will address the politics of arts and culture through seminars with political and cultural leaders, class discussion, readings, and research. Students will develop advocacy campaign plans and analyze how cultural organizations interact with all levels of government.		

MET AR 740: Arts and the Internet
	The course examines the World Wide Web and digital technology, as they relate to Artists and Arts organizations. Class will include presentations, lectures, readings and class discussions. Special attention is given to critical examination, and formal treatment for site development, which will include; analyzing an organization, and other websites of similar organizations, defining the needs of the organization, how the on-line presentation should be visualized, and developing the technical skills students will need as future art administrators. 		

MET AR 750: Financial Management for Nonprofits
	Analyzes issues of accounting, finance, and economics in the context of the not-for-profit organization. Stresses understanding financial statements, budget planning and control, cash flow analysis, and long term planning. 		

MET AR 766: Arts & the Community
	An analysis of issues that involve the engagement of cultural institutions with their immediate community. Includes examination of local arts centers, local arts councils, arts service organizations, agency/government relations, urban issues, multiculturalism, and festivals. 		

MET AR 771: Managing Performing Arts Organizations
		A review of topics essential for successful management of performing arts organizations.Examination of both facilities management and company management. Studies include organizational structure, trustee/staff relations, marketing, audience building, fund-raising, tour management, box office management, budgeting, mailing list and membership management, human resource management and contract negotiation, performance measurement, and strategic planning. 		

MET AR 774: Managing Visual Arts Organizations
		Emphasizes museums, but also includes a review of alternative spaces, commercial galleries, and auction houses. Topics include the changing role of the museum, exhibition planning, fund-raising, crisis management, audience development, and strategic planning. 		

MET AR 777: Comparative Cultural Policy and Administration
		Students travel to London for one week while examining the nature of cultural policy in the United States, the United Kingdom, and the European Union from 1950 to the present. 		

MET AR 778: Legal Issues in Arts Administration
	Analysis of legal implications of managing an arts institution. Topics include nonprofits and tax-exempt structure, contracts, copyright for performing and visual artists, artists' moral rights legislation, royalties and artists' economic rights, international movement of art (duties/immigration restrictions) and artists, nonprofit incorporation, and tax-exempt status for organizations. 		

MET AR 779: Public Art Program Administration
	An overview of public art programs in the United States and of related management issues. Includes government-sponsored funds for art and other funding systems; and working with federal, state, and local governments, artists, architects, and community groups in artist selection, site preparation and long-term maintenance.		

MET AR 780: Arts in Cuba
	Offered in early January (Spring Semester), The Arts in Cuba examines the role of contemporary art, culture and artists in Cuba. The emphasis is on visual arts and the role of the artist in Cuban society, but music, theater and dance are also discussed in their historical, social, economic, and cultural context. We will have the opportunity to visit many of the key cultural institutions in Havana and hear from their leaders how these institutions function. Meets on campus (three times) and in Cuba for one week.		

MET AR 781: Special Topics:  Arts Leaders Forum
	The "Arts Leaders Forum" consists of a series of conversations with arts leaders, including entrepreneurs,  community leaders and established industry experts. Each week guests will share their experiences with  the class. In addition to guest speakers, students will focus on leadership skills and exercises through  readings and cases. The goal of this course is to give students insight into the pressing issues of managing  arts organizations, to gain leadership skills and to provide insight into career options.		

MET AR 787: The Arts in Barcelona
	International travel course in which students have the opportunity to visit cultural institutions and meet professionals in the arts field. Discussion topics include cultural policy, museum systems, financing the arts in Barcelona, European copyright issues, and the theater and music institutional framework and support system. 4 cr 		

MET AR 789: Cultural Entrepreneurship
	Explores the emerging field of cultural entrepreneurship. The course covers a variety of topics,  including the artist as entrepreneur; new business models for arts organizations; art and social  change; and the role of entrepreneurs in cultural organizations. Through case studies, guest  speakers, readings, and group exercises, students will learn about innovative entrepreneurial  initiatives that straddle the boundaries between the private, nonprofit, and public sectors. Guided  exercises enable students to assess and develop their skills as future change agents.		

MET AR 802: Internship in Arts Administration
	Two consecutive two-credit courses for planning (AR 802) and fieldwork (AR 803) phases of the internship. Arts Administration degree students only.		

MET AR 803: Internship in Arts Administration
	Two consecutive two-credit courses for planning (AR 802) and fieldwork (AR 803) phases of the internship. Students may not register for MET AR 803, or begin their actual internship until they have completed a minimum of six of the ten required courses. Arts Administration degree students only. 		

MET AR 804: Advanced Management and Consulting for Arts Organizations
	The purpose of this course is to increase students' ability to analyze and solve problems that confront arts organizations. Students will apply financial, marketing, fundraising, and legal knowledge and techniques to (1) in-class discussion of key management issues of concern to senior leadership, and (2) a semester-long consulting project which partners and team of students with a local arts organization. Permission from instructor required/arts administration students only. Students may not register for MET AR 804 until they have completed a minimum of six required courses.		

MET AS 101: The Solar System
	One of the great achievements of modern science is to understand where we are in space and time.  Since the 1920's, we have known our cosmic address in the Milky Way galaxy, and from the 1930's on  we have been refining our understanding of where we are in the history of the universe. This  perspective has been hard-won, through persistent questioning, observation and creative thinking, and  its historical development parallels the development of the process of science. It has also led to our  present efforts to understand the origin and evolution of life as well as the future of our planet and the  very existence of humanity. Since the 1970's, we have been enjoying a remarkable period of solar  system exploration. We have landed on and flown by worlds both nearby and far away allowing us to  download maps of other solar system objects onto our hand-held devices. With new, larger telescopes,  we have discovered new planetary systems, new classes of objects in our solar system and even revised  the definition of the word planet. Most profoundly of all, we are actively searching for life elsewhere in  our solar system.  In this course we will examine how we came to our present understanding of our place in the universe  and the recent discoveries that are making solar system science so exciting. 		

MET AT 602: Laboratory for Actuarial and Financial Data Analysis II
	A more in-depth seminar than AT 601, covering the same topics in greater detail. Ten sessions.		

MET AT 721: Mathematics of Compound Interest
           			This course develops uses of interest as it relates to the theory of finance.  It will develop an understanding of interest calculations as they relate to bonds, mortgages, annuities under continuous and discrete payment schemes, and for instruments with non-level payment schemes. 		

MET AT 722: Finance for Actuaries
           			This course covers basic models and tools of corporate finance. Topics include net present value valuation, internal rate of return and profitability index models, capital budgeting models and efficient market hypotheses.  These tools will be used to understand and apply basic principles of option pricing theory, including the Black-Scholes formula with application to binomial lattice valuation.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET AT 731: Actuarial Mathematics I
           			This course covers the fundamental principals of actuarial science. It begins with a discussion of survival models, including the functions that define them and special cases. A comparison is made between discrete and continuous models. Topics in the actuarial aspects of insurance will be covered, as will determination of annuities. Finally, the course will discuss the methodology of calculation of premiums. For all these topics, a basic framework will be presented, then more sophisticated models will be developed.   		

MET AT 741: Actuarial Statistics I
MET AT 742: Actuarial Statistics II
           			This course covers: compound model for aggregate claims; credibility theory, including the Buhlmann-Straub credibility model; and empirical Baysian methods. Also included are process models for insurance, discrete, and finite-time ruin probabilities. The course emphasizes applications of statistical principles in actuarial models and modeling.		

MET AT 743: Regression and Time Series
	Prereq: CAS MA 582 or MET MA 582 Mathematical Statistics consent of instructor. Part I of this course will cover simple and multiple regressions, serial correlation and heteroscedasticity, analysis of residuals, and stepwise analysis techniques. Part II will cover time series analysis including smoothing and extrapolation of time series, linear time series models, model building procedure, and forecasting, as well as case studies.		

MET AT 751: Individual Insurance Applications of Actuarial Principles
	This course covers the application of basic actuarial principles to individual life and annuity financial security systems. Material covered will include the purpose of these systems, the development of financial security products, risk classification, actuarial pricing assumptions, the calculation of product cash flows, the purpose of reserves and different reserve methods. Taxation, required capital, profit measurement, and reinsurance considerations will also be studied.		

MET AT 754: Casualty Insurance Principles
	MET AT 754 is a survey of the Property and Casualty Industry from an actuarial science perspective.  Topics will include the theory of insurance, including what risks are insurable, how to calculate  premiums on them, and pay losses on the inevitable claims;  the history of the insurance industry,  focusing on court cases that shaped the current regulatory structure; the basic policy structures of  homeowners, auto, and liability insurance; and reinsurance.  		

MET AT 761: Mathematics for Investment and Portfolio Theory
           			This course covers the risk and return characteristics of primary financial products, fundamental principles of modern portfolio theory, term structures and yield curves, Markowitz Portfolio Selection Model, CAPM and its applications to portfolio management, derivative securities, duration, immunization, and interest rate risk management. 		

MET AT 762: Mathematical Finance for Actuarial Science
		This course covers the analysis of derivative products and their use in insurance and risk management strategies. It covers selected aspects of rational valuation of derivative products like put-call parity, binomial option, and Black Scholes option pricing model. 4cr. 		

MET AT 782: Pension Mathematics and Mortality Tables
           			This course covers pension actuarial funding methods and the use of life contingencies. Included are analyses of the funding methods allowable under ERISA, their computation, and uses. We will also review the use of mortality tables, and discuss the various actuarial functions that are used in pension actuarial calculations. Finally, the course will review implications for pension funding under the IRS Code.		

MET AT 981: Internship in Actuarial Science I
	The course is offered to students who seek practical applications of actuarial principles in insurance companies, financial institutions, pension consulting firms, and other related fields.		

MET AT 982: Internship in Actuarial Science II
		The course is offered to students who seek practical applications of actuarial principles in insurance companies, financial institutions, pension consulting firms, and other related fields. The course requires students to participate in an internship program within the industry. Students need to submit monthly progress reports and a final semester report to the Chairman, Department of Actuarial Science at Boston University.		

MET AT 990: Seminar in Actuarial Science
	Seminars are offered for special topics related to actuarial science, life insurance, casualty insurance, insurance medicine, mortality and mobility, health outcomes, economics, policy, pension, social insurance, mathematical finance, statistics, and other related fields.  Variable cr.		

MET AT 991: Directed Studies I
	The course is offered to students who plan to engage in special research topics under the supervision of a faculty advisor. Application is made through the Department of Actuarial Science.		

MET AT 992: Directed Studies II
	The course is offered to students who plan to engage in special research topics under the supervision of a faculty advisor. Application is made through the Department of Actuarial Science.		

MET BI 105: Introductory Biology for Health Sciences (N)
	Principles of biology: emphasis on cellular structure, heredity, development, and organic evolution. Intended for nonmajors as well as for those concentrating in the health and paramedical sciences. Laboratory course. Three hours lecture, two hours lab. 		

MET BI 106: Human Anatomy (N)
           			Gross structure of the human body: skeletal, muscular, nervous, respiratory, circulatory, digestive, urinary, and reproductive systems. Laboratory course. Three hours lecture, two hours lab. 		

MET BI 107: Biology I: Evolution, Ecology, and Behavior
	Assumes year of high school biology and chemistry. For premedical students and students who plan to concentrate in the natural sciences. Required of biology concentrators. It is recommended that MET CH 101 and CH 102 be taken prior to or concurrently with this sequence. Each course has three hours lecture and three hours lab. 		

MET BI 108: Biology II: Cells, Genetics, Development, and Physiology
	Assumes year of high school biology and chemistry. For premedical students and students who plan to concentrate in the natural sciences. Required of biology concentrators. It is recommended that MET CH 101 and CH 102 be taken prior to or concurrently with this sequence. Each course has three hours lecture and three hours lab. Course examines cells, genetics, development, physiology, and neurobiology. 		

MET BI 203: Cell Biology (CM)
           			Principles of cellular organization and function: biological molecules, enzymes, bioenergetics, membranes, motility, regulatory mechanisms. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion. 		

MET BI 206: Genetics (CM)
           			MET CH 203 recommended. Principles of heredity as derived from genetic, biochemical, and cytological evidence in animals, plants, and microorganisms. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion. 		

MET BI 211: Human Physiology (N)
           			Designed for non-biology majors. Introduction to physiology. Principles of physiology with special reference to humans. Laboratory course. Three hours lecture, three hours lab. 		

MET BI 303: Ecology (EBE)
           			Basic principles of ecology, population dynamics and behavior, interrelationships of plants and animals and their physical and chemical environment. Structure and function of ecosystems and community dynamics. Laboratory course. Three hours lecture, three hours lab. 		

MET BI 315: Systems Physiology (PER/NEURO)
           			An introduction to the basic physiological principles applied across all levels of organization (cell, tissue, organ system) and intended to prepare the student for more advanced courses in physiology. Topics include homeostasis, neural, muscle, cardiopulmonary, renal, endocrine, and reproductive physiology. Three hours lecture, three hours lab. 		

MET BI 407: Animal Behavior (EBE)
           			Ethological approach to animal behavior, including humans; physiological, ontogenetic, and phylogenetic causes and adaptive significance of behavior within an evolutionary framework. Laboratory course. Three hours lecture, three hours lab. 		

MET BI 491: Research in Biology
           			Laboratory or field research projects in biology may be chosen under supervision of Department of Biology. Minimum 12 hours per week in laboratory or fieldwork, not including preparation or evaluation time. Both semesters of research may count toward concentration credit in biology if two semesters of work are completed. 		

MET BI 492: Research in Biology
           			Laboratory or field research projects in biology may be chosen under supervision of Department of Biology. Minimum 12 hours per week in laboratory or fieldwork, not including preparation or evaluation time. Both semesters of research may count toward concentration credit in biology if two semesters of work are completed. 		

MET BI 552: Molecular Biology (CM)
		Structure, synthesis, and control of biologically important macromolecules, especially DNA, RNA, and proteins. Biochemistry of transcription and translation of genetic material. Introduction to molecular problems peculiar to eukaryotes. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion. 		

MET BI 607: Animal Behavior (EBE)
		Ethological approach to animal behavior, including humans; physiological, ontogenetic, and phylogenetic causes and adaptive significance of behavior within an evolutionary framework. Laboratory course. Three hours lecture, three hours lab. 		

MET CH 101: General Chemistry I (N)
           			For science concentrators, premedical students, and students in related fields. Stoichiometry, states of matter, acids and bases, equilibrium, and selected chemical systems. Laboratory course. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, three hours lab per week, and one hour postlab discussion per week. 		

MET CH 102: General Chemistry II (N)
           			For science concentrators, premedical students, and students in related fields. Covers thermodynamics, atomic structure and bonding, electrochemistry, chemical kinetics, and selected chemical systems. Laboratory course. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, three hours lab, and one hour postlab discussion per week. 		

MET CH 103: General Chemistry I--Lecture (N)
	Lecture component of MET CH 101. See CH 101 course description. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion per week. 		

MET CH 104: General Chemistry II--Lecture (N)
	Lecture component of MET CH 102. See CH 102 course description. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion. 		

MET CH 105: General Chemistry I--Laboratory (N)
           			For students who have already taken the lecture portion of CH 101. Three hours lab, one hour postlab discussion per week. 		

MET CH 106: General Chemistry II--Laboratory (N)
           			Laboratory component of MET CH 102. For students who have already taken the lecture portion of CH 102. Three hours lab, one hour postlab discussion per week. 		

MET CH 171: Principles of General Chemistry (N)
	Introduction to chemistry: separation and purification of matter, atomic theory, structure of atoms,  molecules and chemical bonding, chemical formulas, equations, stoichiometry; water, solutions,  concentration, acids, bases, pH and buffers; gases; reaction kinetics and equilibrium, and radioactivity.  Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, one hour prelab lecture, and three hours lab. 		

MET CH 172: Principles of Organic and Biochemistry (NS)
           			Organic chemistry: structure, stereochemistry, and reactions of carbon compounds; emphasis on   compounds of biochemical interest: polysaccharides, lipids, nucleic acids, and proteins. Biochemistry:   structure and function of molecules of biological importance; metabolism of carbohydrates, lipids, and   amino acids. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, one hour prelab lecture, and three hours lab. 		

MET CH 174: Principles of Organic and Biochemistry  (NS)
	Prereq: MET CH 171 or CH 101, 102. Organic chemistry: structure, stereochemistry, and reactions of  carbon compounds; emphasis on compounds of biochemical interest: polysaccharides, lipids, nucleic  acids, and proteins. Biochemistry: structure and function of molecules of biological importance;  metabolism of carbohydrates, lipids, and amino acids. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion.		

MET CH 203: Organic Chemistry
           			Structure and reactivity of organic compounds. Synthesis, reaction mechanisms, bonding, stereochemistry, laboratory methods. Coverage of the families of organic compounds, including molecules of biological interest. Laboratory course. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, one hour prelab lecture, and three-and-a-half hours work period alternate weeks. Laboratory course. 		

MET CH 204: Organic Chemistry
           			Structure and reactivity of organic compounds. Synthesis, reaction mechanisms, bonding, stereochemistry, laboratory methods. Coverage of the families of organic compounds, including molecules of biological interest. Laboratory course. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion, one hour prelab lecture, and three-and-a-half hours work period alternate weeks. Laboratory course. 		

MET CH 205: Organic Chemistry-Lecture
           			Lecture component of MET CH 203, 204. Structure and reactivity of organic compounds, synthesis, reaction mechanisms, bonding, and stereochemistry. Coverage of the families of organic compounds, including molecules of biological importance. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion weekly. 		

MET CH 206: Organic Chemistry-Lecture
           			Lecture component of MET CH 203, 204. Structure and reactivity of organic compounds, synthesis, reaction mechanisms, bonding, and stereochemistry. Coverage of the families of organic compounds, including molecules of biological importance. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion weekly. 		

MET CH 207: Organic Chemistry-Laboratory
           			Laboratory component of MET CH 203, 204. An introduction to laboratory techniques, including experiments in distillation, extraction, chromatography, purification, derivitization, and synthesis. Laboratory course. One hour prelab lecture and three-and-a-half hours work period alternate weeks. 		

MET CH 208: Organic Chemistry-Laboratory
           			Laboratory component of MET CH 203, 204. An introduction to laboratory techniques, including experiments in distillation, extraction, chromatography, purification, derivitization, and synthesis. Laboratory course. One hour prelab lecture and three-and-a-half hours work period alternate weeks. 		

MET CH 273: Principles of Biochemistry
           			Primarily for students in allied health professions. Structure and function of biological macromolecules: polysaccharides, proteins, and nucleic acids; lipids; enzymes and metabolism; bioenergetics, control mechanisms; hormones; body fluids; nutrition; and biochemical pathology. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion. 		

MET CH 351: Physical Chemistry I
           			Quantum Theory, atomic and molecular structure, molecular spectroscopy, statistical mechanics, solid state chemistry. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion.		

MET CH 352: Physical Chemistry II
           			Introduction to thermodynamics, and chemical kinetics. Applications include electrochemistry, phase transitions, catalysts, aqueous solutions and polymers. Three hours lecture, one hour discussion.		

MET CH 421: Biochemistry I
	Prereq: CAS CH 204, CH 212, CH 214, or CH 282. Introductory biochemistry. Protein structure and folding, enzyme mechanisms, kinetics, and allostery; nucleic acid structure; lipids and membrane structure; bioenergetics; vitamins and coenzymes; introduction to intermediary metabolism. Students must register for two sections: lecture and laboratory. Meets with CAS CH 421.		

MET CJ 101: Principles of Criminal Justice
	This course provides a comprehensive overview of the criminal justice system (law enforcement, the  courts, and corrections) while developing students' critical thinking skills. In addition to class lectures, the  course provides multiple venues for learning, to include group activities, guest lectures, a prison tour, and  carefully selected films that highlight some of the most contentious issues in criminal justice today.		

MET CJ 251: Police and Society
	This course provides a foundation for understanding the implications of policing in the United States. The  course examines the historical development of policing in the U.S., the role of police in our society, police  organizations and decision-making, policing strategies, as well as issues of authority and accountability.  Throughout the course, several contemporary issues and controversies facing the police will be discussed  including: police discrimination, police use of force practices, and other special topics. 		

MET CJ 271: Corrections: Concepts, Systems, and Issues
	This course provides an overview of models of punishment and rehabilitation from the perspectives of the humanities and social sciences, including a review of correctional practices and procedures, institutional treatment, probation, parole, prison conditions, programs for juveniles, and comparative systems. Correction administration topics are covered including personnel, legal, operating practices, overcrowding, and planning.		

MET CJ 351: Criminal Law
	Theory and practice of criminal law, including sanctions, individual liability, limitations on state action, criminal and victim rights, evidence, defense, deterrence, mandatory sentencing, decriminalization, intent, entrapment, vagueness, and capital punishment. Case studies of recent court decisions. 		

MET CJ 352: Courts, Society, and Criminal Procedure
           			Federal, state, and local criminal courts and their relationship to contemporary social and political issues. Historical background of the current criminal court system. Institutional functions of the courts. Role of the courts in reducing crime. Judicial process and criminal procedure, case studies and court decisions. 		

MET CJ 420: Directed Study
	Independent study in criminal justice under faculty guidance. Prior approval by program director required.		

MET CJ 510: Special Topics in Criminal Justice
	CJ510 is the designation for "Special Topics in Criminal Justice". The subject matter for CJ510 courses changes from semester to semester, and more than one CJ510 can be offered in a given semester. For course descriptions, please contact the Department or the Graduate Student Advisor, Professor Cronin, at swcronin@bu.edu.		

MET CJ 601: History of Criminal Justice
		This course examines the evolution of the criminal justice system in America, emphasizing the period from  the 18th century to contemporary forms of social control. An appreciation of the historical antecedents of  crime and justice will deepen students' understanding of the modern-day institutions of law enforcement,  courts, and corrections.		

MET CJ 602: Criminology
	This course explores potential answers to complex and important questions about criminal behavior by  drawing on the social science of criminology.  Criminology is the interdisciplinary study of the  development of law, criminal phenomena and societal responses to crime.  The primary emphasis of  this course will be discussing and evaluating major explanations or theories of crime.  Because  criminology is interdisciplinary, we will examine theories that are ground in a range of academic  perspectives, including sociological, biological, political, psychological and economic explanations for  crime.  Course lectures and discussions focus on the historical development of the theories, their major  assumptions and propositions, their relevance for public policy and practice. As we progress through  each explanation for crime, we critically evaluate the validity of different explanations for crime as well  as criminal justice policies and practices that they support.		

MET CJ 610: Special Topics in Criminal Justice: Cybercrime
	This course is designed to help students understand and apply the nature of computer crime in the  criminal justice field. Several theories (both micro-level and macro-level) will be presented and will be  analyzed in depth and applied to computer crime cases both past and present. Students will see how  major theories have been re-developed to be applied to computer crime, and by using these theories,  students will both develop and explore different strategies for future law enforcement. Students will be  presented with common types of fraudulent schemes, as well as several laws that have been enacted  and developed specifically for computer crime. In addition, causes, victimization, legal issues, control  strategies, and societal costs regarding the "computer-crime" problem will be explored and evaluated. 		

MET CJ 625: Victimology
	The purpose of this course is to introduce the student to the discipline of victimology, an emerging area of specialization in the field of criminology. Emphasis will focus on crime victims and their plight, the relationships between crime victims and other social groups and institutions, such as the media, business, politicians, special interest groups, and social movements. The issues of Justice and Redress from the perspective of the victim as well as general society will be stressed. An overview of victim prevention programs and victim assistance programs will be presented. Topics such as the Restorative Justice Model, Victim Repayment, and Victim/Offender Mediation will be included in the course content. While the course follows an interdisciplinary approach and is designed for general interest and appeal, it has particular relevance for students drawn from disciplinary interests in the fields of criminal justice, psychology, sociology, education, health care administration, and political science.		

MET CJ 631: Youth Crime Problems
	Throughout this course, students will analyze the policy issues concerning juvenile justice and youth  crime. Emphasis will be put on the scope and nature of youth crime and the young offender, as well as  juvenile justice procedures, programs and institutional roles. Over the semester, students will also be  asked to consider delinquency prevention programs, violent offenders, dispositional alternatives, and  crimes against youth. 		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET CJ 632: White Collar Crime
	The purpose of this course is to examine the nature and extent of corporate and white-collar crime,  including detection, deterrence, and criminal liability sanctions, as well as, the social and legal changes  related to corporate illegality. Students will use case materials which address securities fraud, money  "laundering", professional deviance, and political corruption, in addition to other topics. Students will also  analyze policy responses including RICO and other laws, regulations and court processing. 		

MET CJ 650: Terrorism
	This course will include a general introduction to the overt as well as underlying ideology, history, reasons and causes of terrorism. Both domestic and international terrorism will be discussed. Domestic hate groups will also receive particular attention. The roles of politics and the media will be discussed. Students will be exposed to the philosophies of terrorists and terrorism. Counter terrorism will also be discussed at length.  Students are expected to participate actively in the course. There will be written assignments, a midterm, a class presentation, and a final paper.		

MET CJ 656: Forensic Criminal Investigation
	Forensic Criminal Investigation is an examination of the strategies, techniques, and procedures implicated in the process of conducting forensic criminal investigations, i.e. cases that will seek adjudication in the criminal court.  Students will examine cold cases, concluded successful investigations, ongoing investigations as well as the perspective and worldview of the perpetrators and victims of violent crimes in an effort to deconstruct and disassemble crimes, crime scenes and the criminal mind. 		

MET CJ 660: Gender and Justice
	This course examines the role of gender in both criminal behavior and the societal response to crime.   Gender affects criminal behavior, structures our responses to crime, and presents unique challenges for  the criminal justice system.  While the course examines the role of gender in these ways for both men  and women, the course focuses on the limitations of research, policy and practice that has focused  traditionally on male offenders.  The course also examines the role of gender in criminal justice  organizations and processes.  		

MET CJ 701: Crime and Punishment
		Police officers, corrections officers, probation and parole officers, youth service officers, federal law  enforcement agents, and court professionals are all called upon on a daily basis to make critical decisions  that significantly affect the lives of those entrusted to them. Students in this course will consider  applications of ethical actions as they pertain to issues of social justice. Toward that end, we will forge a  strong notion of our definition of just what constitutes social justice. 		

MET CJ 702: Analytical Methods
	This course introduces students to the use of quantitative data in analyzing the criminal justice system.  It serves as an introduction to the statistical methods used in applied social science research and furthers students' understanding of the role statistical analysis plays in planning and policy development.		

MET CJ 703: Research Methods
	This course introduces students to the practice, theory, and philosophy of social science research, with a special focus on criminal justice. It not only broadens students' knowledge of the ethical issues associated with research, but also introduces them to a variety of research techniques such as surveys, field research, and experimental designs. Research Methods will lay the foundation for students to become informed "consumers" of research, as well as "producers" of it.		

MET CJ 725: Forensic Behavior Analysis
	This course will examine the fascinating world of forensic psychology. It will examine the way in which  the law and mental health intersect and forensic psychologists help the court in addressing a variety of  cases and issues.  The course will explore how expert opinions are formed and provided on a variety of  issues including;  not guilty by reason of mental illness pleas, competency to stand trial, prediction of  future violence, sexual predators; psychopaths, the forcible medication of mentally ill patients, and   civil commitment.  The difference between sound and "junk" science will be discussed.  		

MET CJ 750: Policing in a Democratic Society
	Police agencies play a critical role in a democratic society. While seeking to maintain order, enforce the law and deliver services effectively, police agencies are held accountable to a wide-variety of values by a number of powerful stakeholders. Police leaders, managers, and other personnel must understand the complexities of the police role in society, the political and legal constraints placed on them in addition to being experts in effective, evidence-based approaches to dealing with crime problems in the community. By applying theory, policy, and evaluation literature to the cutting-edge practices in the field, this course provides students with an advanced understanding in the field of police leadership, management, strategy, and accountability within a democratic society. 4 cr. 		

MET CJ 775: Seminar in the Law and Criminal Procedure
	This course examines the origins and evolution of contemporary criminal procedure. Case law governing criminal justice functions such as stops, interrogations, arrests, warrants, identification practices, the use of informants, and searches and seizures will be explored through the prism of the U.S. Constitution and the Bill of Rights. 		

MET CJ 801: Special Project in Criminal Justice
		Individual faculty supervision of an independent student project demonstrating application of previous program coursework to a selected topic, issue, or theme in criminal justice. 		

MET CJ 831: Criminal Justice Administration
	The challenge of administering, managing, and leading today's criminal justice organizations is becoming  increasingly complicated due to many factors, ranging from terrorism and cyber crime to politicization and  privatization. This course provides students with not only a conceptual and theoretical basis on which to  manage these complex entities, but also practical approaches to organizational effectiveness, integrity,  and innovation. 		

MET CM 702: Advertising and Society
	Analyzes the impact of advertising on individuals and society and evaluates the ethical, moral, and legal questions relating to the advertising industry. The history of advertising and the rise of consumerism will be studied to create a paradigm for understanding the social effects of advertising. Students will study the issues of advertising in cyberspace and questions of privacy and protection from intrusive communication messages.		

MET CM 704: Contemporary Mass Communication
	Overview of and current trends in the contemporary mass media labor force. Topics include career opportunities in print, film, broadcast, and digital media; changing relationships between media; contemporary patterns of ownership and audience attention; how the media select their content, how they are financed, and how they are related to agencies of control; and ethical issues and controversies regarding media content and influences.  		

MET CM 707: Writing for Media Professionals
	Introduction to basic formats, including news releases, editorials, features, profiles, scripts, and basic copy qualities such as readability, clarity, crispness, color, and organization. Emphasis on developing the ability to write copy for varied audiences. Regular writing assignments; considerable rewriting. Includes lead writing, editing, and interviewing. 		

MET CM 708: Principles and Practices of Advertising
	Overview of the nature, function, practice, and social, economic, and behavioral aspects of advertising. Student teams develop advertising plans, create campaigns, and explore problems of account management, creativity, production, and ethics. 		

MET CM 711: Consumer Insight and Account Planning
	Grad Prereq: MET CM 708  Explores how to arrive at consumer insights that lead to better advertising and promotion. The course focuses on the set of skills necessary to create breakthrough advertising, including qualitative research, observation, interviewing skills, mapping, and presentation tools. Students learn to write effective creative briefs. 		

MET CM 714: Video in the Digital Age
           			The role of video has become even more significant in terms of the digital environment for branded content, webisodes, viral video, corporate micro-documentaries, and instructional/educational website content. How this is integrated with, and disseminated by, social media is key. In addition, budgetary constraints in relation to work for the web often require a different creative approach than traditional broadcast media. This course explores the creative development of video concepts and introduces students to basic production techniques as they relate to the development of video geared for the web. This is mainly a writing and concept development course. Some rudimentary editing techniques are discussed throughout the semester.		

MET CM 716: Digital Communication
	This course is designed to introduce students to using new media tools for creating media communication. Students build an integrated campaign and web site using software, which includes Photoshop, InDesign, iMovie, Dreamweaver and Flash. Students develop an understanding of the process of design consisting of: ideation, strategy and execution. <br><br> Permission required for non-MET students. Contact Metropolitan College, 755 Commonwealth Avenue, Room 103 (617-353-3000) for more information.		

MET CM 717: Fundamentals of Creative Development
	Examines the creative process in advertising, including concept development, copywriting, layout, and campaign strategies. Emphasis is on print advertising, but radio and television commercials are also included. Assignments include consumer and trade advertisements for both new and mature products.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET CM 719: Interactive Marketing Communications
	An overview of the theories, practices, and techniques in the emerging field of interactive marketing communications (IAMC). Students gain an understanding of the strategy and tactics of IAMC and its place in the more comprehensive field of marketing communications. In addition, students review IAMC's relationship to and its effects on society, culture, and the economic system.  The course will explore almost all the ways interactive marketing can be practiced via the Internet: historical introduction, dotcom era, basic principles, database marketing, etail, email, search (SEO & SEM/PPC), display advertising, social networking, gaming, mobile, et al.		

MET CM 721: Advertising Management
	Prereq: MET CM 708 Administration of a complete advertising program. Case study method used to explore the marketing mix, budgeting, media strategy, planning, coordinating advertising with promotion, working with client or agency, and the social responsibility of advertisers.		

MET CM 726: Strategic Brand Solutions
	Explores the impact of current advertising/marketing issues from business, economic, political, social, legal, and ethical perspectives. Modified case method, with lectures from experts on selected issues. 		

MET CM 736: New & Traditional Media Strategies
           			Examines media planning, buying and sales as performed by advertising agencies, clients, and the media. Research sources providing data on media audiences and product usage are evaluated. Examines contemporary trends in communications media and their effects on advertisers. 		

MET CM 737: Social Networks in Strategic Communication Planning
	The purpose of MET CM737, Social Networks in Strategic Communication Planning, is to help students understand the rapid evolution in marketing and communications brought on by the shift in technology that has forever changed traditional media and launched powerful new communications platforms via social media.  This course will focus on communications strategy -- where it's been, where it's going with a focus on executing strategies through social media platforms that align with overall business (brand) goals and objectives.  To help gain this perspective, students will learn from various experts (guests to class) and hands-on exercises designed to give all students a solid baseline for the dominant and tertiary social media platforms.  I fully believe that the best way to learn and understand social media is to jump in and engage with the different platforms.  This class will encourage and insist that you engage with at least two social media platforms so you can bring this first-hand knowledge to class.		

MET CM 739: Principles of Search Engine Marketing
	In this course students will become familiar with the basics of Search Engine Optimization and Search Engine Advertising and how these new rapidly growing areas fit into the marketing communications planning process. The course will cover topics such as how search engines work, how users search, how to optimize a website for search engines, how to develop a Search Engine Advertising campaign and how to measure success. The course will also cover Social Media Marketing. At the end of the semester students will present a strategically executed Search Engine Marketing plan. Prerequisite for the course is MET CM 719, Interactive Marketing Communication or permission of the instructor.		

MET CM 744: Design and New Media
	Provides knowledge and practice for effective graphic design for all media. Develops a foundation in design principles and software skills including Illustrator, Photoshop, and InDesign. Students create projects demonstrating how graphic design is used to engage an audience and enhance comprehension of all forms of mass communication from traditional print to new media.		

MET CS 101: Computers and Their Applications
	For students with no prior experience with computers. Organization and function of computer systems; application of computers in today's society; social impact of computers. Introduction to algorithms, various types of application packages, and the Internet. Not for computer science majors. Laboratory course. 		

MET CS 200: Fundamentals of Information Technology
	This course is a technically-oriented introductory survey of information technology. Students learn about  basic computer information, different types of business systems and basic systems analysis, design and  development. Students also study basic mathematics, software development and create simple Java  programs. 4 credits.		

MET CS 201: Introduction to Programming
	Introduction to problem-solving methods and algorithm development. Includes procedural and data abstractions, program design, debugging, testing, and documentation. Covers data types, control structures, functions, parameter passing, library functions, and arrays. Laboratory exercises in C++. Laboratory course.		

MET CS 231: Programming with C++
           			Covers the elements of object-oriented programming and the C++ language. Data types, control structures, functions, library functions, classes, inheritance, and multiple inheritance. Use of constructors, destructors, function and operator overloading, reference parameters and default values, friend functions, input and output streams, templates, and exceptions. Laboratory course. 		

MET CS 232: Programming with Java
           			This course covers the elements of object-oriented programming and the Java Programming Language. Primitive data types, control structures, methods, classes, arrays and strings, inheritance and polymorphism, interfaces, creating user interfaces, applets, exceptions and streams. Laboratory course. 		

MET CS 248: Discrete Mathematics
	Fundamentals of logic (the laws of logic, rules of inferences, quantifiers, proofs of theorems), Fundamental principles of counting (permutations, combinations), set theory, relations and functions, graphs, trees and sorting, shortest path and minimal spanning trees algorithms. Monoids and Groups. 		

MET CS 341: Data Structures with C++
           			Covers data structures, using the C++ language. Topics include data abstraction, encapsulation, the use of recursion, creation and manipulation of various data structures; bags, lists, queues, tables, trees, heaps and graphs, and searching and sorting algorithms. Laboratory course. 		

MET CS 342: Data Structures with Java
           			This course covers data structures using the Java Programming Language. Topics include data abstraction, encapsulation, information hiding, and the use of recursion, creation and manipulation of various data structures: lists, queues, tables, trees, heaps, and graphs, and searching and sorting algorithms. Laboratory course. 		

MET CS 382: Information Systems for Management
           			Computer-based management information systems. Management's role in development and use of computer systems. Planning for a comprehensive information system; role in decision making, case studies. 		

MET CS 401: Introduction to Web Application Development
           			This course focuses on building core competencies in web design and development. It begins with a  complete immersion into HTML essentially XHTML and Dynamic HTML (DHTML). Students are exposed to  Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), as well as Dynamic CSS. The fundamentals of JavaScript language including  object-oriented JavaScript is covered comprehensively. AJAX with XML and JSON are covered, as they are  the primary means to transfer data from client and server. 4 credits		

MET CS 425: Introduction to Business Data Communications and Networks
           			Basic concepts of data communications and computer networks; hardware, software, and reference  models; TCP/IP protocol suit. Overview of voice communication, LAN, network development life cycle,  security, management IT Economic: Total Cost Ownership, Return on investment and IT Project Portfolio  Management. 		

MET CS 469: Introduction to Database Design and Implementation for Business
	Database concepts, relational and entity-relationship (ER) data models, normalization, object-relational modeling, database lifecycle, the Structured Query Language (SQL). Preview of advanced database concepts, including transaction management, performance tuning, distributed databases, and data warehousing. Meets with CS 669, with undergraduate-level exercises, quizzes, and final and an optional term project. (Lab class)		

MET CS 472: Computer Architecture
           			Computer organization with emphasis on processors, memory, and input/output. Includes pipelining, ALUs, caches, virtual memory, parallelism, measuring performance, and basic operating systems concepts.  Discussion of assembly language instruction sets and programming as well as internal representation of instructions.  Prerequisite: MET CS231 or CS232		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET CS 495: Directed Study
           			Independent study on special projects under faculty guidance. 		

MET CS 496: Directed Study
           			Independent study on special projects under faculty guidance.		

MET CS 503: Windows .NET Application Programming with C#
		In-depth exploration of the C# programming language and Visual Studio .NET for development, debugging, and deployment of applications. 4 credits.		

MET CS 504: Green Information Technology
	This course empowers students to reduce the energy use, waste, and other environmental impacts of IT systems while reducing life cycle costs, thereby improving competitive advantage.  Students learn how to measure computer power usage, minimize power usage, procure sustainable hardware, design green data centers, recycle computer equipment, configure computers to minimize power, use virtualization to reduce the number of servers, and other green technologies. Students also learn how to make green IT an integral part of organizational culture and planning, to foster long-term sustainable information technology. The course is executed through a combination of lectures, guest lectures, field trips, assignments, labs, case studies, and a term project. 		

MET CS 520: Information Structures
	This course covers the concepts of object-oriented approach to software design and development using   the Java programming language. It includes a detailed discussion of programming concepts starting   with the fundamentals of data types, control structures methods, classes, applets, arrays and strings,   and proceeding to advanced topics such as inheritance and polymorphism, interfaces, creating user   interfaces, exceptions, and streams. Upon completion of this course the students will be able to apply   software engineering criteria to design and implement Java applications that are secure, robust, and   scalable. <br><br> MET CS 200 Fundamentals of Information Technology; recommended to students  with no programming background. Or Instructor's Consent.		

MET CS 532: Computer Graphics
		This course is primarily the study of design of graphic algorithms. At the end of the course you can expect to be able to write programs to model, transform and display 3-dimensional objects on a 2-dimensional display. The course starts with a brief survey of graphics devices and graphics software. 2-d primitives such as lines and curves in 2-d space are studied and a number of algorithms to draw them on a rectangular surface are introduced, followed by a study of polygons, scan conversion and other fill methods. Attributes of the primitives are studied as well as filtering and aliasing. Geometric transformations in 2 dimensions are introduced in homogeneous coordinates, followed by the viewing pipeline, which includes clipping of lines, polygons and text. Hierarchical graphics modeling is briefly studied. The graphics user interface is introduced and various input functions and interaction modes are examined. 3-d graphics is introduced through object representations through polygonal methods, spline techniques, and octrees. This is followed by 3-d transformations and the 3-d viewing pipeline. The course ends with a study of algorithms to detect the visible surfaces of a 3-d object in both the object space and the image space. Laboratory Course		

MET CS 535: Computer Networks
           			Overview of data communication and computer networks, including network hardware and software, as well as reference models, example networks, data communication services and network standardization. The OSI and the Internet (TCP/IP) network models are discussed. The course covers each network layer in details, starting from the Physical layer to towards the Application layer, and includes an overview of network security topics. Other topics covered include encoding digital and analog signals, transmission media, protocols. circuit, packet, message, switching techniques, internetworking devices, topologies. LANs/WANs, Ethernet, IP, TCP, UDP, and Web applications. Labs on network analysis. 		

MET CS 544: Foundations of Analytics
	The goal of this course is to provide students with the mathematical and practical background required in the field of data analytics. Starting with an introduction to probability and statistics,  the R tool is introduced for statistical computing and graphics. Different types of data are investigated along with data summarization techniques and plotting. Data populations using discrete, continuous, and multivariate distributions are explored. Errors during measurements and computations are analyzed in the course. Confidence intervals and hypothesis testing topics are also examined. The concepts covered in the course are demonstrated using R. Laboratory Course. 		

MET CS 546: Quantitative Methods for Information Systems
           			The goal of this course is to provide Computer Information Systems students with the mathematical fundamentals required for successful quantitative analysis of problems in the field of business computing. The first part of the course introduces the mathematical prerequisites for understanding probability and statistics. Topics include combinatorial mathematics, functions, and the fundamentals of differentiation and integration. The second part of the course concentrates on the study of elementary probability theory, discrete and continuous distributions. 4 cr		

MET CS 555: Data Analysis and Visualization
	This course provides an overview of the statistical tools most commonly used to process, analyze,  and visualize data. Topics include simple linear regression, multiple regression, logistic  regression, analysis of variance, and survival analysis. These topics are explored using the  statistical package R, with a focus on understanding how to use and interpret output from this  software as well as how to visualize results. In each topic area, the methodology, including  underlying assumptions and the mechanics of how it all works along with appropriate  interpretation of the results, are discussed. Concepts are presented in context of real world  examples.		

MET CS 561: Financial Informatics
	This course presents financial algorithms used in applications of computer science in financial decision analysis, risk management, data mining and market analysis, and other modern business processes. The course covers theoretical background on probabilistic methods used for financial decision making and their application in number of fields such as financial modeling, venture capital decision making, operational risk measurement and investment science. Number of financial applications and algorithms are being presented for portfolio risk analysis,  modeling real options, venture capital decision making, etc. The course concludes with algorithms for financial risk assessment and presents the security concepts and challenges of financial information systems. 		

MET CS 565: Advanced Java Programming
           			Comprehensive coverage of object-oriented programming with cooperating classes. Implementation of polymorphism with inheritance and interfaces and in Java library containers. Programming with exceptions, stream input/output and graphical AWT and Swing components. Threads, sockets, datagrams and database connectivity are also covered in this course. Laboratory course.		

MET CS 566: Analysis of Algorithms
           			Discusses basic methods for designing and analyzing efficient algorithms emphasizing methods used in practice. Topics include sorting, searching, dynamic programming, greedy algorithms, advanced data structures, graph algorithms (shortest path, spanning trees, tree traversals), matrix operations, string matching, NP completeness. 		

MET CS 570: Biomedical Sciences and Health IT
	This course is designed for IT professionals, and those training to be IT professionals, who are preparing  for careers in healthcare-related IT (Health Informatics). This course provides a high-level introduction  into basic concepts of biomedicine and familiarizes students with the structure and organization of  American healthcare system and the roles played by IT in that system. The course introduces medical  terminology, human anatomy and physiology, disease processes, diagnostic modalities, and treatments  associated with common disease processes. IT case studies demonstrate the key roles of health  informatics and how IT tools and resources help medical professionals integrate multiple sources of  information to make diagnostic and therapeutic decisions. [4 cr.] 		

MET CS 575: Operating Systems
           			Overview of operating system characteristics, design objectives, and structures. Topics include concurrent processes, coordination of asynchronous events, file systems, resource sharing, memory management, security, scheduling and deadlock problems. 		

MET CS 579: Database Management
           			This course provides a theoretical yet modern presentation of database topics ranging from Data and Object Modeling, relational algebra and normalization to advanced topics such as how to develop Web-based database applications. Other topics covered - relational data model, SQL and manipulating relational data; applications programming for relational databases; physical characteristics of databases; achieving performance and reliability with database systems; object-oriented database systems.		

MET CS 580: Health Informatics
           			This course presents the technological fundamentals and integrated clinical applications of modern Biomedical IT.  The first part of the course covers the technological fundamentals and the scientific concepts behind modern medical technologies, such as digital radiography, CT, nuclear medicine, ultrasound imaging, etc. It also presents various medical data and patient records, and focuses on various techniques for processing medical images. This part also covers medical computer networks and systems and data security and protection. The second part of the course focuses on actual medical applications that are used in health care and biomedical research. 		

MET CS 581: Electronic Health Records
	Electronic Health Records (EHRs) are application systems that automate the activities of healthcare  clinicians including physicians, nurses, physician assistants, and healthcare administrative staff. Use of  EHRs is increasing rapidly due to the systems' benefits and federal government programs to deploy  EHRs. This increased use of EHRs has many challenges including complex data, high security  requirements, integration to multiple application systems, a distributed user base, and broad impact on how these users work.   Prerequisite: CS 570 Biomedical Sciences and Health IT or comparable knowledge of Health Sciences and Fundamentals of IT.  		

MET CS 593: Special Topics
	Prereq: consent of the instructor.		

MET CS 599: Biometrics
	In this course we will study the fundamental and design applications of various biometric systems based  on fingerprints, voice, face, hand geometry, palm print, iris, retina, and other modalities. Multimodal  biometric systems that use two or more of the above characteristics will be discussed. Biometric system  performance and issues related to the security and privacy aspects of these systems will also be  addressed. 4 credits.		

MET CS 601: Web Application Development
           			This course focuses on building core competencies in web design and development. It begins with a  complete immersion into HTML essentially XHTML and Dynamic HTML (DHTML). Students are exposed to  Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), as well as Dynamic CSS. The fundamentals of JavaScript language including  object-oriented JavaScript is covered comprehensively. AJAX with XML and JSON are covered, as they are  the primary means to transfer data from client and server. 4 credits.		

MET CS 625: Business Data Communication and Networks
           			This course presents the foundations of data communications and takes a bottom-up approach to  computer networks. The course concludes with an overview of basic network security and management  concepts. 4 credits.		

MET CS 632: Information Technology Project Management
	This course provides students with a comprehensive overview of the principles, processes, and practices of software project management. Students learn techniques for planning, organizing, scheduling, and controlling software projects. There is substantial focus on software cost estimation and software risk management. Students will obtain practical project management skills and competencies related to the definition of a software project, establishment of project communications, managing project changes, and managing distributed software teams and projects. 		

MET CS 633: Distributed Software Development and Management
	This course prepares students to justify, lead, participate in, and maintain geographically distributed  development (GDD) projects. Students study the technical and business implications of GDD. They also  work in geographically dispersed teams to produce documented applications. No programming  background is required. Prerequisites: MET CS 520 or MET CS 601 and MET CS 682. 4 credits.		

MET CS 635: Network Design and Implementation
		Computer Networks continue to grow and diversify at unprecedented rate.  Much of that diversification is in how the media are utilized.  One can not truly understand networking, analyze alternatives or design good networks without a solid founding in how the media are utilized.  This course will explore current and expected media technologies with the intent of understanding what they offer and the trade-offs they present.  The course will cover both wireline (Ethernet, DOCSIS, MPLS, ATM) and wireless (802.11, Wi-Max, Zigbee, Bluetooth, etc).  The course will analyze the technologies to consider their error characteristics, support for quality of service, congestion control, and security, and their manageability.		

MET CS 651: Web Development with .NET
           			This course provides a comprehensive introduction to building web applications and web services using the Microsoft .NET (Version 3.5) development platform. The key technologies covered include the C# programming language (Version 3.0), the ASP.NET (Version 3.5) system for developing web applications and web services using C#, and ADO.NET and LINQ (Language INtegrated Query) for data access. In addition to the above topics, we will also cover Windows Communication Framework (WCF) and Windows Presentation Framework (WPF). All programming will be based on Microsoft Visual Studio 2008 available through BU's MSDNAA. A copy of the software will be provided to the students. 		

MET CS 662: Computer Language Theory
           			Theory of finite automata and regular expressions and properties of regular sets. Context-free grammars, context-free languages, and pushdown automata. Turing machines, undecidability problems, and the Chomsky hierarchy. Introduction to computational complexity theory and the study of NP-complete problems.		

MET CS 664: Artificial Intelligence
           			Study of the ideas and techniques that enable computers to behave intelligently. Search, constraint propagations, and reasoning. Knowledge representation, natural language, learning, question answering, inference, visual perception, and/or problem solving. Laboratory course. 		

MET CS 665: Software Design and Patterns
		Software design principles, the object-oriented paradigm, unified modeling language; creational,  structural, and behavioral design patterns; OO analysis and design; implementation of semester project.  Laboratory course.		

MET CS 667: Enterprise Java
           			The course begins with an overview of advanced Java concepts like databases, networking, and remote method invocation (RMI). The J2EE architecture is explored starting with the presentation layer which includes the servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP). The Struts application framework is presented as a case study. Hibernate and Spring framework will be covered extensively. The business layer is covered using the enterprise java beans (EJB 2.1 and EJB 3.0). Advanced concepts like Java Messaging Service and Java Server Faces will be briefly covered.		

MET CS 669: Database Design and Implementation for Business
           			Students learn the latest relational and object-relational tools and techniques for persistent data and  object modeling and management. Students gain extensive hands-on experience using Oracle or Microsoft  SQL Server as they learn the Structured Query Language (SQL) and design and implement databases.  Students design and implement a database system as a term project. class. 4 credits.		

MET CS 671: Systems Programming Using UNIX
		Teaches students how to develop complex applications based on the UNIX/POSIX standard. Topics include UNIX standardization and implementation, shell programming, system calls, library function, process control and relationships, signals, file and terminal input/output, and interprocess communication. Laboratory course. 		

MET CS 673: Software Engineering
           			Techniques for the construction of reliable, efficient, and cost-effective software. Requirement analysis, software design, programming methodologies, testing procedures, software development tools, and management issues. Students plan, design, implement, and test a system in a group project. Laboratory course. 		

MET CS 674: Database Security
		The course provides a strong foundation in database security and auditing. This course utilizes Oracle scenarios and step-by-step examples. The following topics are covered: security, profiles, password policies, privileges and roles, Virtual Private Databases, and auditing. The course also covers advanced topics such as SQL injection, database management security issues such as securing the DBMS, enforcing access controls, and related issues.		

MET CS 680: Business Structure and Strategy in the Telecommunication Industry
	Market structure, market rivalry, regulations, and public policy will be discussed. Merger/acquisition and strategic partnerships, as well as the business structure of the cable, wireless, and satellite industries. E-commerce and Web-related issues will be examined. 		

MET CS 682: Information Systems Analysis and Design
           			Object-oriented methods of information systems analysis and design for organizations with data- processing needs. System feasibility; requirements analysis; database utilization; Unified Modeling  Language; software system architecture, design, and implementation, management; project control; and  systems-level testing. 		

MET CS 683: Mobile Application Development
		This course will be divided into two parts. The first part, two thirds of the course, covers the principles and problems associated with mobile device applications, using as examples Google Android, iPhone, and other platforms such as Nokia. The last third is an in depth coverage of the open source Android development platform. Issues covered will include Mobile Hardware and Cell Networks, Architectures, Operating Systems, Languages, Development Environments and Simulators, User Interfaces, Location-based Services, Storing and Retrieving Data.  Students will accomplish the following.  (1) Learn the unique set of problems and challenges in developing mobile applications compared with desktop applications; (2) Learn the platform, tools, technology and process for developing mobile applications using Google Android and the Apple iPhone platforms as the main examples; (3) Write applications for the platforms covered, simulate them, and test them on the mobile hardware where possible; and (4) Work collaboratively with fellow students on their projects.		

MET CS 684: IT Security Policies and Procedures
	This course enables IT professional leaders to identify emerging security risks and implement highly secure networks to support organizational goals. Discussion of methodologies for identifying, quantifying, mitigating and controlling risks. Students implement a comprehensive IT risk management plans (RMP) that identify alternate sites for processing mission-critical applications, and techniques to recover infrastructure, systems, networks, data and user access. The course also discusses related topics such as: disaster recovery, handling information security; protection of property, personnel and facilities; protection of sensitive and classified information, privacy issues, and criminal terrorist and hostile activities.		

MET CS 685: Network Design and Management
           			This course covers computer networks management including configuration, fault, performance, as well as security management. Particular focus and emphasis is given to security management. Problem solving techniques and network management tools are discussed and practiced during extensive laboratory sessions. Topics include LAN and WAN network management, fault detection, configuration, security, performance, accounting management. Strong focus on problem-solving techniques and network management tools based on SNMP, detailed discussion of multi-user computer systems security techniques, basics of cryptography, authentication techniques, and Kerberos, Secure operating systems. Software protection. Electronic mail. Web Security, IPsec, e-commerce: payment protocols, electronic cash. Risk assessment.		

MET CS 688: Web Analytics and Mining
	The Web Analytics and Mining course covers the areas of web analytics, text mining, web mining, and practical application domains. The web analytics part of the course studies the metrics of web sites, their content, user behavior, and reporting. Google analytics tool is used for collection of web site data and doing the analysis. The text mining module covers the analysis of text including content extraction, string matching, clustering, classification, and recommendation systems. The web mining module studies how web crawlers process and index the content of web sites, how search works, and how results are ranked. Application areas mining the social web and game metrics will be extensively investigated. Laboratory Course. 		

MET CS 689: Designing and Implementing a Data Warehouse
		This course provides students with the technical skills required to plan, implement, and maintain a data warehouse using a DBMS such as Oracle Warehouse Builder. It describes basic data warehousing concepts. Key topics: Design a data warehousing system; implement a database designed with a star schema, gather data from primary data sources, transform data, and load data in to a DBMS. Students will create a cube using OLAP and analyze cube data using client applications. Upon successful completion, students will be familiar with the typical data warehouse components and architecture, and have an understanding of the practical uses of data warehousing. 		

MET CS 690: Network Security
           			This course will cover advanced network security issues and solutions. The main focus on the first part  of the course will be on Security basics, i.e. security services, access controls, vulnerabilities, threats  and risk, network architectures and attacks. In the second part of the course, particular focus and  emphasis will be given to network security capabilities and mechanisms (Access Control on wire-line  and wireless networks), IPsec, Firewalls, Deep Packet Inspection and Transport security. The final  portion of the course will address Network Application security (Email, Ad-hoc, XML/SAML and Services  Oriented Architecture security. As part of our course review we will explore a number of Network Use  Cases. 4 credits.		

MET CS 693: Digital Forensics and Investigations
	Provides a comprehensive understanding of digital forensics and investigation tools and techniques.  Laboratory and hands-on assignments either in solo or in teams. 4 credits.		

MET CS 695: Enterprise Information Security
           			The course provides an in-depth presentation of security issues in computer systems, networks, and applications. Formal security models are presented and illustrated on operating system security aspects, more specifically memory protection, access control and authentication, file system security, backup and recovery management, intrusion and virus protection mechanisms. Application level security focuses on language level security and various security policies; conventional and public keys encryption, authentication, message digest and digital signatures. Internet and intranet topics include security in IP, routers, proxy servers, and firewalls, application-level gateways, Web servers, file and mail servers. Discussion of remote access issues, such as dial-up servers, modems, VPN gateways and clients.		

MET CS 699: Data Mining and Business Intelligence
           			Data mining and investigation is a key goal behind any data warehouse effort. The course provides an  introduction to concepts behind data mining, text mining, and web mining. Algorithms will be tested on  data sets using the Weka Data mining software and Microsoft SQL Server 2005 (Business Intelligence  Development Studio). 4 credits.		

MET CS 701: Rich Internet Application Development
           			The Rich Internet Application (RIA) Development course concentrates primarily on building rich client  web applications in the browser for desktop and mobile devices. The course is divided into various  modules covering in depth the following technologies: HTML5, jQuery UI & Mobile, and AngularJS.  Along with the fundamentals underlying these technologies, several applications will be showcased as  case studies. Students work with these technologies starting with simple applications and then examining real world  complex applications. At the end of this course, students would have mastered the latest  and widely  used RIA methodologies. 		

MET CS 703: Network Forensics
           			This course provides a comprehensive understanding of network forensic analysis principles. Within the  context of forensics security, network infrastructures, topologies, and protocols are introduced. 4 credits.		

MET CS 713: Advanced Digital Forensics
		This course provides an introduction to the advanced digital forensic topic relating to malicious software (malware), which represents an increasing information security threat to computer systems and networks. Students will review software engineering design fundamentals and reverse engineering techniques utilized to conduct static and dynamic forensic analysis on computer systems and networks. Students will learn about the importance of forensic principles, legal considerations, digital evidence controls, and documentation of forensic procedures. This course will incorporate demonstrations and laboratory exercises to reinforce practical applications of course instruction and will require an independent research paper related to the course topic.		

MET CS 751: Web Services
		Architecture of Web Services; review of XML Shemas; SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol); WSDL (Web Services Description Language); UDDI (Universal Description, Discovery, and Integration); Web Services in .NET; Sun and Apache tools; Company-specific Web Service API?s; Java API?s for XML Messaging; Java Application Servers; review of Security, transactions, and business process languages (e.g. BPEL) among Web Services. 		

MET CS 755: Cloud Computing
	Cloud computing leverages the World Wide Web to fulfill computing needs. It packages applications, computing power, and storage as a metered service similar to a utility. This model is designed to supplant the traditional mechanism of desktop computing in many cases. This course will cover the origin, theory, enabling technology, and hands-on labs for key concepts in cloud computing. Students will: (1) Learn the unique set of problems and challenges in developing cloud computing applications; (2) Learn the platform, tools, technology and processes for developing cloud computing applications using Hadoop as the main example; and (3) Propose, develop, and run applications for the platforms covered.		

MET CS 767: Fuzzy, Expert, Genetic, and Neural Systems
		Theories and methods for automating the solution of problems with inexact specifications, input, models, or output (e.g., text checkers, help desks). Expert systems, fuzzy methods, neural net architectures, and genetic algorithms are examined and compared. Algorithms and a term project are implemented using shells and C++ or Java. Laboratory course. 		

MET CS 770: Object-Oriented Analysis and Design
		The object-oriented paradigm is key to the predictable development of reliable software-intensive systems. Object-oriented methods consist of languages, distribution, analysis and design. Languages change and so does distribution (the manner in which processing is distributed). Basic to Object-Orientation, however, are Analysis and Design, which have remained remarkably stable.  The course emphasizes ways to retain the goals of the object paradigm, the exploitation of use cases, the construction of sequence diagrams, the selection of classes, the relationships among them, and their utilization to implement systems. The course covers the relationship of GUI's to classes, and relates OO Analysis and Design to refactoring. 		

MET CS 773: Software Quality Management
		Theory and practice of quality assurance and testing for each step of the software development cycle.  Verification vs. validation. Test case design techniques, test coverage criteria, and tools for static and  dynamic analysis. Standards. Test-driven development. QA for maintenance and legacy applications.  Experimental approaches. 4 credits.		

MET CS 775: Advanced Networking
		In-depth coverage of the architecture, interfaces, protocols, and technologies of high-speed broadband networks. Topics include broadband wide-area network (WAN) technologies such as gigabit routers with IP switching, MPLS, ATM and Frame Relay; broadband LAN technologies: Fast Ethernet and Ethernet Switching, Gigabit Ethernet, and FDDI; broadband access technologies: DSL and Cable modems, as well as discussion of network performance, congestion control and traffic management, provision of different levels of quality of service (QoS),resource reservation, unicast and multicast routing, and multimedia compression and security in broadband networks. Students are required to complete a research project in one of the advanced Internet technologies. Labs on network performance analysis.		

MET CS 779: Advanced Database Management
		This course covers advanced aspects of database management systems including advanced  normalization and denormalization, query optimization, object-oriented and object-relational  databases, data warehousing, data mining, distributed databases, XML, XSL, and databases for web  applications. There is extensive coverage of SQL and database instance tuning. Students learn about the  advanced object-relational features in DBMS such as Oracle, including navigational query, BLOBs,  abstract data types, and methods. 4 credits.		

MET CS 780: Database Administration
		This course prepares students to perform the day-to-day administration of a database system. While most  of the examples in this course are based on Oracle database administration, the course also covers the  differences in administering Microsoft SQL Server and MySQL and examples. The course covers  administration on Windows, Linux and Unix platforms. 4 credits. 		

MET CS 781: Advanced Health Informatics
           			This course presents the details of information processing in hospitals, hospital information systems (HIS), and more broadly health information systems. It presents the architecture, design, and user requirements of information systems in health care environment. It focuses on Information Technology aspects of Health Informatics specifically addressing the design, development, operation, and management of HIS. The first part of this course covers the introductory concepts including information processing needs, and information management in health care environment. The second part covers detailed description of HIS including hospital process modeling, architecture, quality assessment, and applicable tools. The final part of the course covers management of HIS and related issues and extension of this topic to other health care organizations. The course will have a term project providing students a hands-on experience in design and research of HIS. Prerequisite: CS 580 Health Informatics.		

MET CS 782: IT Strategy and Management
           			This course provides an overview of contemporary I.T. management. It explains the relevant issues of  effectively managing information services. The course highlights areas of greatest current and potential  application of I.T. to business needs and reviews electronic business, enterprise business systems, and  decision support systems. 		

MET CS 783: Enterprise Architecture
		This course builds upon the strong technical foundation of our MSCIS and MSCS curricula, by providing  students with the CIO-level management perspective and skills of enterprise architecture, in the  context of the technologies that implement those architectures. The course provides students with the  understanding and skills needed to define and implement successful enterprise architectures that  provide real value to organizations, such as substantially reducing IT costs while improving  performance, agility and alignment of information technology to business goals. 4 credits.		

MET CS 789: Cryptography
		The course covers the main concepts and principles of cryptography with the main emphasis put on public  key cryptography. 4 credits.		

MET CS 795: Directed Study
MET CS 796: Directed Study
MET CS 799: Advanced Cryptography
MET CS 810: Master's Thesis in Computer Science
MET CS 811: Master's Thesis in Computer Science
MET CS 893: Agile and Advanced Software Engineering Methods
MET EC 101: Introductory Microeconomic Analysis
MET EC 102: Introductory Macroeconomic Analysis
MET EC 201: Intermediate Microeconomic Analysis
MET EC 202: Intermediate Macroeconomic Analysis
MET EC 203: Empirical Economics 1
MET EC 204: Empirical Economics 2
MET EC 332: Market Structure and Economic Performance
MET EC 341: Monetary and Banking Institutions
MET EC 356: Economics of the Labor Market
MET EC 391: International Economics I
MET EC 392: International Economics II: Problems and Policy
MET EN 104: English Composition
MET EN 125: Readings in Modern Literature
MET EN 127: Readings in American Literature
MET EN 141: Literary Types: Fiction
	Representative English and American novels from the eighteenth century to the present. Required papers. Primarily for students not concentrating in English.		

MET EN 142: Literary Types: Poetry
	Critical reading of representative English and American poems. Primarily for students not concentrating in English.		

MET EN 143: Literary Types: Drama
	Critical reading of representative plays from the ancient Greeks to the present. Primarily for students not concentrating in English.		

MET EN 201: Intermediate Composition
           			Does not give concentration credit. Practice in writing narration, exposition,   argument and persuasion,      the critical essay, and the research paper.   Related readings. Class discussion of papers. Individual      conferences.   Students enroll in specific seminars. Limited enrollment.<br><br> MET EN201 --   Section    Descriptions for Fall 2014<br><br> MET EN201 A1 -- "Multiethnic   American Literature" (Bennett): <br> This course examines the psychological,   political, sociological, and religious concerns of "ethnic" individuals in the   United States in the twenty- and twenty-first centuries and what it means to be   an "American."  We will carefully define "ethnicity" in various literary texts   including a novel, "graphic" books of cartoons, short stories, and poems.  We   will explore works by Native Americans, African Americans, Latin Americans,   Jewish Americans, and Asian Americans.  We will read Art Spiegelman's 'Maus'   (Volumes 1 and 2), John Okada's 'No-No Boy', Junot DÃ­az's 'Drown', Sherman   Alexie's 'The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven', African American   stories, and Arab American poetry.  The humor in a number of these texts   counters the pain described by many of the writers. <br><br> MET EN201 C1 --   "Technology, Ideology and Society" (Grabianowski): <br> Is it possible to create   a sustainable and livable world where equality and human rights are respected?   What, if any, roles do science and technology play in creating such a world?  In   this section of English 201, we will first consider how 19th and 20th century   writers like Nathaniel Hawthorne, Walt Whitman and Aldo Leopold have addressed   the practical and ethical issues that arise out of the intersection of   technology, nature and society. We will then explore through topics like   sustainable business models, ecological economics, big data, agribusiness and   genetics how contemporary scientists, technology industry leaders, and writers   like Jacob Bronowski, Bill Joy, Michael Pollan and Herman Daly continue to   grapple with the rapid transformation of our technological existence. <br><br>  MET EN201 D1 -- "The Lost Generation" (Jackson):<br> This class explores the   writers of the Lost Generation, American expatriates in Europe in the 1920's and   1930's. These include some of the most important and most popular of all   American writers. The readings include Ezra Pound, Gertrude Stein, T. S. Eliot's   The Waste Land, Ernest Hemingway's The Sun Also Rises, and F. Scott Fitzgerald's   Tender Is the Night. Our research will examine these works in the contexts of  World War I, growing  social and political revolutions, changes in the roles of  men and women, the  psychologies of both Freud and "shell-shock," contrasts  between Europe and  America, the economics of a stock market boom and the Great  Depression, and the  challenges of Modernism in art. <br><br>		

MET EN 202: Introduction to Creative Writing
	Designed mainly for those with little or no experience in creative writing. An introduction to writing in various genres: poetry, fiction, and plays. Students' works discussed in class. Limited enrollment. 		

MET EN 220: Proseminar: Literacy Study
	Fundamentals of literary analysis and interpretation. Intensive study of selected literary texts. Frequent papers. Limited class size. 4 cr		

MET EN 305: Advanced Writing of Fiction
	Competitive admission, limited enrollment. Note: Obtain syllabus at Creative Writing Program Office (236 Bay State Rd.) before end of fall semester. Intensive study of American writers and of writing by participants. Students write and present at least one story or chapter and read writings of others. 		

MET EN 322: Survey of British Literature I
	Prereq: MET HU 221.  British literature from its beginnings to the Restoration.  		

MET EN 323: Survey of British Literature II
           			British literature from the Restoration to the end of the nineteenth century.		

MET EN 355: Modern Drama
	A century's transformations of drama and stage. Reading and discussion of plays from early realism and expressionism to the theatre of the absurd and present trends: Ibsen, Strindberg, Chekhov, Shaw, Synge, Pirandello, Brecht, Sartre, Ionesco, Beckett, Genet, Pinter, and others.		

MET EN 356: Modern Drama II
	Modern to contemporary drama since about 1950. Beckett, Genet, Osborne, Wesker, Pinter, Arden, Stoppard, Durrenmatt, Grass, Weiss, Handke, Albee, Miller, Williams, Shepard, and others. Related readings in predecessors, such as Kleist and Artaud, and in less well known contemporaries.		

MET EN 363: Shakespeare I
	Six plays chosen from the following: Richard II, Romeo and Juliet, Henry IV (Part 1), Troilus and Cressida, As You Like It, Hamlet, Othello, Antony and Cleopatra, and The Winter's Tale.		

MET EN 364: Shakespeare II
	Six plays chosen from the following: Richard III, A Midsummer Night's Dream, Much Ado About Nothing, Measure for Measure, Twelfth Night, Julius Caesar, King Lear, Macbeth, Coriolanus, and The Tempest. 		

MET EN 373: Detective Fiction
	Origins and development of the detective and crime genres in England and America, including works of Collins, Poe, Dickens, Doyle, Christie, Sayers, and Chandler, among others. 		

MET EN 529: The Romantic Age: English Literature in the Age of Revolution
	Blake, Wordsworth, and Coleridge. Emphasis on readings, but the course deals with romanticism both as an historical movement and as a cultural category significantly connected to modernism. 		

MET EN 535: Twentieth-Century British and Irish Poetry
	Close reading of balladic, lyric, and longer poems by Hardy, Yeats, Lawrence, Auden, Rosenberg, Mew, Loy, MacDiarmid, Gurney, Douglas, Larkin, Hill, Harrison, Prynne, others. Poets' essays and opposed schools and approaches. Reference to other arts, and times of political tragedy.		

MET EN 536: Twentieth-Century American Poetry
	Study of five or six poets from the following: Pound, Eliot, Stevens, Williams, Moore, Frost, Lowell, Bishop, Berryman, Ammons, Ashbery, Plath, Ginsberg, Merrill.		

MET EN 543: The Nineteenth-Century English Novel
	The novel from Scott to Hardy. Among the works to be discussed: Scott's Waverley, Austen's Emma, Dickens's Bleak House, Eliot's Middlemarch, BrontÃ«'s Wuthering Heights, and Hardy's Jude the Obscure.		

MET EN 544: The Modern British Novel
	Conrad, Woolf, Lawrence, Ford, Forster, Beckett, and other novelists of the period 1895-1956. 		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET EN 546: The Modern American Novel
	From 1900 to the present, including Dreiser, Hemingway, Fitzgerald, Faulkner, and selected contemporary novelists. 		

MET EN 547: Contemporary American Fiction
	Study of American postmodern fiction and culture since 1950; includes works by Atwood, Barthelme, Burroughs, Coover, DeLillo, Nabokov, Pynchon, and others. 		

MET EN 550: Classics of British and American Literature
	"Classics of British and American Literature" is designed to teach some of the classic books of English-language literature, including several of those most widely read in American high schools, as well as some authoritative literary criticism on each of these works, their authors and genres. The course will include selected poems, short stories, and essays, as well as novels and provide historical background for each work and biographical information about the author. We will look at some film versions of the works studied. The course explicitly introduces students to issues and controversies concerning the nature and purpose of literature curricula in schools. These include the idea of a "classic," a literary canon, and a "high" culture, as opposed to or different from popular, commercial, contemporary, and utilitarian uses and forms of literature. Texts: Shakespeare, Julius Caesar; Douglass, Narrative; Hawthorne, The Scarlet Letter; Twain, Huckleberry Finn; Wharton, Ethan Frome; Fitzgerald, The Great Gatsby. Essays: Lincoln, Emerson,Thoreau. Short Stories: Hemingway, Anderson, Roth, Updike, Oates, Gordimer. Poetry: Whitman, Dickinson, Eliot, Frost, Owen, Larkin. Note: Course does not count for the English major.  		

MET EN 552: English Drama from 1590 to 1642
	The heritage of Marlow and Shakespeare: the collapse of a historic world; Jacobean pessimism and decadence in the plays of Jonson, Webster, Middleton, Ford, and others.		

MET EN 583: Contemporary Poetry
	Major voices since 1980 who inherit and expand American poetic traditions, selected from Ashbery, Collins, Graham, Hecht, Komunyakaa, Kunitz, Pinsky, Wilbur, and others. Related readings in immediate predecessors such as Justice, Merrill. Opportunity for student choice of emerging poets. 		

MET ES 107: Environmental Geology I: Geologic Hazards and Hostile Environments (N)
	Earthquakes and plate tectonics. Volcanic eruptions. Floods, erosion, and water pollution. Coastal hazards. 		

MET ES 108: Environmental Geology II: Land Use Planning, Environmental Impact, and Global Change (N)
	The course introduces the concept of global climate change and Earth system science by first discussing basic principles of environmental geology and plate tectonics. Groundwater, groundwater pollution, and environmental impact of resource recovery are discussed in the context of health and land-use planning. Other topics include glaciations, desertification, acid rain, global warming, and long-term geologic change.		

MET ES 141: Special Topics in Earth Science
	Course material and subject matter will vary semester to semester.		

MET ES 142: Shoreline Processes and Environments (N)
	Primary vs secondary coasts, barrier types, barrier island development, tidal inlet processes, shoreline erosion and depositional problems, coastal dunes, tidal marshes, and estuarine processes and environments. 		

MET HC 750: The American Health Care System for Health Communicators
	A vital component of the Health Communication curriculum, this course explores the health care system in terms of 1)communication within organizations, resources, and processes that constitute structure and operations; 2) relationships among stakeholders that shape it; and 3) resulting policies that impact system performance and influence the future of health care. Given the complexity and dynamics of the health care environment, an understanding of related issues at all levels is essential for effective communication and prevention of error within health care organizations. Without it, organizations must react defensively to environmental and political threats, often at the expense of patient safety and well-being; with it, organizations can act strategically to maximize growth opportunities and anticipate those forces that influence policy. The course draws upon multiple perspectives, including health communication in medicine and public health, health management (access, quality, and cost), politics, healthcare ethics, law, and the complexities of cross-cultural and psychosocial considerations within today's healthcare system.   [ 4 cr.]		

MET HC 751: Introduction to Epidemiology for Health Communicators
	This course is recommended for students who are not Epidemiology concentrators. The purpose of this course is to introduce the basic principles and methods of epidemiology and demonstrate their applicability in the field of public health. A further objective is to provide an introduction to the basic skills needed to critically interpret the epidemiologic literature relevant to public health professionals.   [ 4 cr.]		

MET HC 752: The Biology of Disease
	This course, designed for students who have little or no background in the biological sciences, provides a foundation in the biological mechanisms and principles underlying major health problems. Selected health problems are explored from a biological perspective in order to provide fundamental information about infectious and non-infectious agents of disease, disease transmission, biological defense mechanisms, co-evolution of man and microbes, the effects of nutritional deficiency and excess, effects of respiratory exposures, the biology of cancer, aging, and other topics. Each student completing this course should be able to knowledgeably participate in a discussion of related health problems with a basic understanding of the terminology, and the underlying biological mechanisms.   [ 4 cr.]		

MET HC 753: Nutrition and Health for Communicators
	The course provides an introduction to concepts in human nutrition and their application in the area of public health. In addition to providing basic information regarding nutrients, the design of practical diets that promote health throughout the life cycle will be discussed. Issues such as development of public health nutrition policy, program planning and administration, and nutrition surveillance will also be reviewed.   [ 4 cr.]		

MET HC 754: Ethical Issues in Medicine and Public Health Communication
	This course applies the core principles of bioethics to ethical dilemmas that arise in the context of public health, individualized medicine, and the provision of health care services in order to provide students with the tools necessary (i) to identify the stakeholders and their respective interests; (ii) to analyze those dilemmas from the perspectives of the various stakeholders; (iii) to think critically about the way public policy and public perceptions about the issues are shaped and thus (iv) to become effective agents of information concerning these kinds of controversies.		

MET HC 755: Contemporary Health Care Marketing
	This course provides an in-depth understanding of the essential concepts of marketing and their application to health care. Students gain a working knowledge of marketing tools (such as pricing, promotion, channels, consumer behavior, brand equity, and segmentation) and how to use them. Students build practical applied skills in analyzing marketing problems and developing marketing programs and strategies, with particular attention to health care and its organizational structures, financing, technologies, market demands, laws, and regulations. Students also expand their understanding of the differences and similarities between marketing in for-profit and not-for-profit health care organizations, and they increase their appreciation of the role of data collection, analysis, interpretation, and management in marketing decisions.   [ 4 cr.]		

MET HC 756: Contemporary Public Relations
	Provides an overview of the professional principles and practices in public relations for corporate, governmental, agency and nonprofit organizations. Includes history, organization, and scope of the field; its roots in social science; types of campaigns and programs; and professional ethics. Theories, strategies, and tactics in current practice emphasized and applied to health communication. Explores opportunities and requirements for work in the field. Students will learn to apply the basic public relations campaign planning model and examine public relations specialty practice areas including media relations, community relations, government relations, crisis communication, investor relations and employee communication.   [ 4 cr.]		

MET HC 757: Interactive Marketing Communications
	An overview of the theories, practices, and techniques in the emerging field of interactive marketing communications (IAMC). Students gain an understanding of the strategy and tactics of IAMC and its place in the more comprehensive field of marketing communications. In addition, students review IAMC's relationship to and its effects on society, culture, and the economic system. The course will explore almost all the ways interactive marketing can be practiced via the Internet: historical introduction, dotcom era, basic principles, database marketing, etail, email, search (SEO & SEM/PPC), display advertising, social networking, gaming, mobile, et al.   [ 4 cr.]		

MET HC 758: Media Relations
	Students learn publicity techniques used in mass media communication, including working with daily and weekly newspapers, magazines, radio, television, film and online media. The course will examine the principles and practices of working with mass media "gatekeepers" to accomplish campaign objectives as well as strategies and tactics for communicating directly with audiences through new media. Students will develop knowledge and skills related to the production and use of media relations tools with a focus on health communication. Case studies will be employed to understand the challenges and opportunities inherent in working with mass media as well as the special demands and practices associated with crisis communication. The course will also explore the emerging role of interactive and social media.   [ 4 cr.]		

MET HC 759: Health Communication
	Health communication is an emerging field in which professional communicators inform, influence and motivate individual, institutional, and public audiences about important health issues. This course examines theories of interpersonal, organizational, and mass communication relevant to the professional communicator in the health field. Reviews strategies of persuasion, the relationship between attitudes and behavior, and the changing nature of health and health delivery in the United States, and evaluates successful and unsuccessful health information campaigns. 		

MET HI 101: The History of Western Civilization I
	Surveys the development of Western society and culture from a.d. 1000 to the French Revolution of 1789. Topics include the development of medieval European society and culture, the Renaissance, the Reformation, the scientific revolution, absolutism, enlightened despotism, and eighteenth-century rationalism. 		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET HI 102: The History of Western Civilization II
	A survey of Western society from the French Revolution through World War II, including the Industrial Revolution, nineteenth-century nationalism and imperialism, the rise of working-class movements, international rivalries, and ideological conflict in the twentieth century. 		

MET HI 151: American History, 1607-1865
	Growth of the United States from the colonial wars to the end of the Civil War. Explores British colonial policy, the Revolution, and the Constitution. Analyzes Federalism, Jeffersonian revolution, and westward expansion. Examines sectionalism, slavery, and war. 		

MET HI 152: American History, 1865- Present
	Continues MET HI 151. Analyzes the Reconstruction; economic expansion; problems of transportation, business, agriculture, labor, and finance; the populist movement; the place of the United States among nations; reform legislation; the United States in World War I; the New Deal; and World War II and after. 		

MET HI 300: The American Immigrant Experience
	Immigration has made and is remaking America. All Americans, or their ancestors, were at one time immigrants. This course provides a historical survey of this immigration. The first half of the course explores eighteenth- and nineteenth-century immigration movements; the second half focuses on the twentieth century. 		

MET HI 305: Pivotal Trials in Massachusetts History
	This course examines the historical and social context of landmark judicial trials in Massachusetts from the seventeenth through the twentieth centuries. The background, issues, and outcome of each trial is observed within itself and in relation to the larger context in which it occurred. Certain legal strategies will be discussed, as well as the fairness or unfairness of the outcome of each trial and its effect on the society as a whole. 		

MET HI 317: Europe in World Politics, 1870-Present
	Analysis of the crucial role played by the nations of Europe in the great international developments of the past century. Special attention to the impact of domestic social, economic, and political conflicts on the formulation of foreign policy. 		

MET HI 330: History of the Middle East I
	Middle East history, culture and civilizations. From the Seventh to the beginning of Twentieth Century;  Ancient civilizations, advent of Abrahamic faith systems, surge and expansion of Arab-Muslim Societies,  Crusaders, Persian and Turkic people, Colonialism and National states. What we learn from yesterday to  understand today.  		

MET HI 332: Recent and Contemporary History of Europe
	Using historical studies, fiction, and film, this course explores the major twentieth-century European political struggles from the perspective of ordinary citizens. Topics include the cultural impact of mass warfare, the invasion of ideology in private life, sexual politics, and the drive for independence of the colonized peoples. The course stresses the building of writing and discussion skills with the chance to rewrite and to debate interpretations of events and trends with classmates. 		

MET HI 333: History of the Middle East II
	Middle East history and society from World War I to the present. Emphasis on the collapse of the  Ottoman Empire, colonial rule in the Arab world, formation of the nation states, rise of nationalism,  struggle for independence, discovery of oil, modernization, the Arab and Israeli conflict,  revolution,  reemergence of Islam as a political ideology, the Gulf War and United States involvement, Arab spring and  concept of democracy. 		

MET HI 342: History of America at War
	This course surveys the history of America at war from pre-conquest Native American warfare to  modern times. It covers colonial-era traditions, the Revolutionary War, 19th century wars with Britain,  Mexico, and Spain, the Civil War, the two World Wars, Korea, Vietnam, and modern wars in the Greater  Middle East. Attention is paid to varying military traditions, military culture and capabilities, from  backwoods skirmishing to set-piece battles, to total war on a global scale, to today?s fighting against  irregular enemies employing evolving combat doctrines and assets. Documentary and other films will  enhance class discussion of the evolution of American warfare and of Americans at war.		

MET HI 355: Modern China
	Exploration of twentieth-century China. Emphasis on the conditions inside and outside China that led to the revolution and to the establishment of the present state. The Cultural Revolution and its effect on present-day China.		

MET HI 363: Twentieth-Century United States, 1901-41
	Impact of industrialization; progressive impulse and politics; American imperialism; World War I; reaction and social revolt; technology, prosperity, and fundamentalism; the Great Depression; Roosevelt, the New Deal, and welfare capitalism; and politics and foreign policy. 		

MET HI 364: Twentieth-Century United States, 1941-Present
	The origins and consequences of World War II; the Truman administration and the Fair Deal; the origins of the cold war; international and domestic issues and conflicts from the 1950s to the 1980s.		

MET HI 371: History of African Americans
	Historical patterns of racial relations and participation of African Americans in American social, economic, political, and cultural life. Major historical events and institutions: the slave system, Civil War and Reconstruction, industrialization, urbanization, the New Deal, and the civil rights movement. 		

MET HI 373: History of Boston
	The foundations, development, and "fate" of Boston since the colonial period. Explores the architecture, geography, social structure, and economic development of the city, as well as political changes.		

MET HI 374: Women in American History
	American women's history from the time of European settlement to the 1980s. Women's changing patterns of family life, paid and unpaid work, political and social involvement, and attempts to change the shape of their world. The goals of the course are to acquaint students with the significant concepts and events in women's history and, through class discussions, to engage students in ongoing debates about their meanings. 		

MET HI 395: Film and History
	This course compares and contrasts the ways that historians work in varied media:  books, essays, feature films, and documentary films. The class pursues the histories of past events and periods in American history, analyzing how writers and film-makers develop a narrative approach to events, time periods, or individuals' lives. The course also looks not only at history in film but also at the history of film and its development as an artistic and cultural expression during the twentieth century. The class considers the ways that films are themselves cultural artifacts of the time in which they were produced: what movies tell us about American values, myths, and character at a particular point in time and how the requirements of a particular film genre affect the cultural information it presents.		

MET HI 425: Women in European History
	This course provides an introduction to the role of women in European history. Readings and discussion focus broadly on changing attitudes, expectations, and opportunities for women by exploring such topics as convent life, working conditions, charity, the witch craze, and political and religious upheaval. It also examines the challenge of writing women back into history and looks at the lives and strategies of individual women. 		

MET HI 440: Twentieth-Century American Social History
	Significant themes in American social history in the twentieth century, including radical and protest movements, mass media, ethnic movements and conflict, urban disorders, and attitudes. Basic themes vary with the instructor and semester. 		

MET HI 450: American Popular Culture: Humor and History
	The increase in scholarly and popular interest in humor during the past several decades demonstrates a heightened awareness of the significance of humor in American culture. This course analyzes the historical and sociological patterns of humor and their relation to social change and conflict in twentieth-century America. Includes readings from the social sciences and humanities and a series of films.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET HI 476: Special Topics: The American Presidency
	This course will focus on the changing institution of the American Presidency from 1901 to the present. As it examines the policies and personalities of modern U.S. presidents from Theodore Roosevelt to Barack Obama, this course will pay special attention to the evolving concept of the "imperial presidency" over the past century. We will also consider how changes in our political culture, driven by the rapid evolution of new communication technologies, have transformed the office of the presidency. 		

MET HU 221: Major Authors I
	Introduction to major works of ancient and medieval European literatures that influenced later Continental, English, and American literature: the Bible,  Homeric epic, Greek Tragedy, Virgil's Aeneid, and Dante's The Divine Comedy.		

MET HU 400: Great Works of the Modern Era
	The 20th century presented the most accelerated period of social evolution in human history: two World Wars were fought; technology developed at a dazzling pace; psychological exploration and scientific discovery assailed traditional conceptions of religion and the nature of reality; the relation of the individual to society fluctuated as new social and political models originated. Our main focus will be the literature and film within this time frame, but parallel developments in art and music will also be discussed. 		

MET IS 308: Exploring Philosophy through Film: Knowledge, Ethics, & Personal Identity
	This introduction to philosophy revolves around selected films and related texts that provoke serious reflection on issues of knowledge, ethics, and personal identity.  The main objective of the course is to provide an introduction to the nature of philosophical inquiry and analysis by exposing the student to specific philosophical problems and issues.  By focusing on film as the visual and narrative medium in which these problems and issues emerge, the student will also consider the ways in which art (with the focus here being on cinematic art) can represent and embody philosophical questions, ideas, and positions.  Related objectives include the development of critical thinking and writing skills as well as the cultivation of the student's appreciation of film as an art form.  		

MET IS 312: Food Stuff: A Taste of Biology
	This course, we will explore biological principles in the context of food. It will focus on biodiversity, evolution, biochemistry, symbioses, and humans in the biosphere. Students will be encouraged to make their own connections about the world of food by learning about biological interactions and relationships.  		

MET IS 325: Explorations in the Essay: History, Theory, Practice
	The purpose of the course is threefold: first, to introduce students to a wide variety of essay forms, arranged historically and considered in historical context; second, to provide the opportunity to practice these forms and by imitating models to become more adept and polished writers of the essay, and finally, to explore the theory of the essay, by examining discussions among literary critics concerning the defining characteristics of the genre.		

MET IS 327: The Meaning of America: People, Identity, and Conflict that Built a Nation
	The course examines the philosophical underpinnings of what it means to be an American and the experiences of ordinary men and women in the making of modern America. It will look closely at the ideas of those who founded the nation and how this affected the idealism which became the American identity. The role of immigration, the change from agrarian to urban industrialized society, the growth and influence of labor unions, the shift of the U.S. from maker to buyer of goods and services, and how the ideological notion of what it means to be American evolved will be examined. How events shaped lives and national identity will be discussed. The course will look at ordinary workers and their communities and how they adjusted to changing events and forces around them.		

MET IS 333: Manipulating Life: The Ethics and Science of Biotechnology
	This course will explore the science behind new technologies in biology, but it will also address the ethical questions that define and direct the application of these approaches, especially in humans. Students initially will be expected to master the basic biology of DNA, gene expression, and genomics. The course will require students to learn the basic components of ethical theory and apply them to living organisms in general and to human life in particular.		

MET IS 345: Rethinking the Classics: Contemporary Takes on the Canon
	This interdisciplinary course pairs well-known "classic" texts with more contemporary, perhaps lesser-known works that, in one way or another, respond to the earlier examples. The course focuses on traditions (literary, cinematic, and so forth) to emphasize genre and cultural history, and, as one of its goals, moves toward discussions of aesthetics. The course will examine the timeless quality of any work we consider a "classic" and also challenge the idea of timelessness by thinking about dialogues that exist between centuries and cultures and art. Contemporary examples will allow students to think of how other voices and perspectives (gender, ethnic, racial) may question the stability of what we often deem enduring or artistic. The course pushes beyond a simple comparison/contrast approach and mere discussions of influence. Instead, we will think through the implications (theoretical, political and aesthetic) of revision, adaptation, and the intertextual. Finally, the class asks students to formulate their own aesthetic criteria through a close reading of both primary texts and secondary critical essays which will supplement the readings, film screenings, and artwork.		

MET IS 350: Nature and the Divine in Myth, Literature, and Art
	Over time and throughout cultures, human understanding of a divine presence, of a god or gods, has been intimately connected to our relationship with nature. In some myths, the divine is thought to be inherent in the forces of nature; in others, God stands outside, controlling nature and passing that control to human beings. Still another world view suggests that humans, nature, and the divine are all one thing, as represented in metaphors such as the circle or web of life. This course introduces students to some of the world's mythic traditions, applying them to the enduring cultural issues surrounding humanity's relationship to nature and our role as stewards of the environment. We will follow a roughly chronological syllabus, with readings from the Bible and classical mythology through the writings of Emerson and modern works such as Ceremony by Pueblo author Leslie Marmon Silko. Students will also be exposed to visual art (including Celtic Christian and Native American design) and some film. 		

MET IS 360: Literature, Film, and the American Dream
	This course will examine the nature of the American Dream as seen through fiction, essays, poetry, autobiography, historical documents, and art. It will follow a chronological pattern with the Dream evolving from the Puritan fathers? desire for religious freedom to the Revolution's emphasis on political liberty, the 19th century's focus on self reliance, and the quest for the good life characteristic of the 20th century. At the same time, such characteristic thematic elements as the desire for equality, individual expansion and achievement, and the maturation of the soul will be examined in terms of their impact on all the different permutations of the Dream.		

MET IS 362: Mathematics that Matter in the Twenty-first Century
	In this course students will expand their knowledge of the mathematics of probability, algebraic thinking, geometry, and statistics, with a focus on contemporary developments and applications. The course will examine the applications of mathematics in contemporary contexts via readings and explorations. 4 cr		

MET IS 367: Jobs, Wages, and the Economy
	This course introduces fundamental concepts of micro and macro economics within the context of the labor market. In micro economics, we focus on the supply and demand for labor, looking at trends in labor force participation, college attendance, and wage differentials. In macro economics, we focus on the ability of the economy to create enough jobs to maintain full employment. We will also cover current topics related to the functioning of the labor market, including a discussion of income distribution and poverty, and the employment impact of international trade and outsourcing.		

MET IS 370: China, the Emerging Superpower: A Model for Development?
	Online offering. The course will assess whether China will remain a friend or become a foe for the U.S., argue whether China's road to modernization is an apt model for other developing nations, analyze China's past to discover patterns and traditions that still exist, and study the interaction between China and the world community to determine its future role as a world leader. For further information, please call the Office of Distance Education at 617-358-1960.		

MET IS 380: Landscape, Climate, and Humans
	This course will provide students with an introduction to environmental science with a dual focus in physical geography and climatology. Students will learn to interpret major themes in Earth History and human affairs through interactive lessons that include online lectures, outside reading, and extensive online maps, diagrams, and animations. We will discuss the interactions of climate, physical geography, and human activities in the formation of a dynamic, living Earth. The action of weather, humans, and non-human organisms on the Earth's surface will tie the course together as we end with biogeochemistry and a look at the origin of life. (4 credits)		

MET IS 385: Interior and Exterior Landscapes: Understanding Native American Cultures
	The indigenous people of North America have a unique experience of negotiating cultural boundaries, alien ideologies, and inscrutable behaviors that appear in everything from personal interactions to national policy, and their own cultural and religious traditions have survived despite a dominant culture that has sought to both annihilate and romanticize them. This course is about that cultural interaction and offers an opportunity to understand Native American cultures in their own terms through the voices of their people expressing themselves in literature, film, and other cultural productions and to  nderstand America from the perspective of the cultures of its original inhabitants. 		

MET IS 400: Great Ideas
	This course will complement HU 400 by focusing on the philosophical, scientific, and political concepts  that underlie the foundations of modern western history.  		

MET IS 401: Communication Skills I
	This undergraduate communication course incorporates writing skills with academic research. Both business and academic writing expectations are covered. This skills-oriented course focuses on the development of oral and written communication techniques, small and large group dynamics, presentations, and negotiations. [4 undergraduate credits ]		

MET IS 402: Communication Skills II
	This undergraduate communication course incorporates presentation skills with academic research. It reviews the writing standards of IS 401 Ex and covers interpersonal and management communications for professionals. Course writing and presentation assignments will be posted in student ePortfolios. This course is set in the context of communications skills for professionals.  (4 undergraduate credits)  		

MET IS 403: Natural Science in Contemporary Society
	This course will focus on controversial and critical social, environmental,  business, and political issues in the various disciplines of science. The natural  sciences will be explored in the context of public policy.  [Var cr.]  		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET IS 419: American Traditional Music
	Traditional American music is a dynamic cultural medium that defines identity and community. It is transmitted by long-practiced modes of observation and imitation, and it engages talented musicians who are part of a long-lived cultural continuum. It is based upon a collective understanding of what tradition is, but it is necessarily altered in each generation as new musicians bring their training, insights, talents, and instruments to the process. The result- never entirely harmonious, always uneasy- holds a continuing power to speak to adherents and new listeners alike. It is not merely the tune that us transmitted in the traditional process, but also a portion of the social fabric that bound the tune as it was played in the past. How traditional music has evolved into the current popular American musical forms, and the history of the creation of a hybrid, but distinctively national, music will be explored in lectures, musical examples, and readings from some of the leading scholars of American traditional music.		

MET IS 420: The Moral Self: Psychological, Religious, and Spiritual Perspectives
	This course will examine morality through three related yet different lenses: psychology, religion and spirituality. With war, terrorism, global climate change, geological disruptions, and other threats, humans tend to feel more vulnerable, more insecure, and to seek deeper understandings of themselves and their world. Accordingly, issues such as abortion, capital punishment, and stem-cell research take on new meanings as morality evolves with culture. How do we develop a moral understanding of what is appropriate behavior for ourselves and others around us? Is morality carved in stone or is it subject to change, depending upon life experience, religion, secular and social orientation, and other factors? The goal of this course is not to definitively answer questions but to generate them; not to agree on moral issues, but to facilitate understanding of others views; not to criticize, but to comprehend the strengths and limitations of each paradigm. 		

MET IS 421: The Art of Rhetoric in Life and Work
	The art of rhetoric is one of the original liberal arts and is a part of the trivium that includes grammar and logic. Rhetoric is as old as human communication and as diverse as the human imagination. In the twenty-first century, rhetoric has new forms and meanings but retains some of the dynamics of the classical age of Greece and Rome. This course is a study of the art of rhetoric in everyday life and work from both theoretical and practical perspectives with an emphasis on writing and interpretation.		

MET IS 423: The Experience of Forgiveness: Psychological, Sociological and Spiritual Perspectives
	This seminar explores the psycho/social/spiritual dimensions of the individual?s experience of forgiveness. The forgiveness process is investigated through the theoretical work of psychologists such as Carl Jung and Robert Enright and spiritual/political leaders such as Martin Luther King, Jr., the Dalai Lama, Nelson Mandela and Desmond Tutu. Individual narratives by forgivers are considered and analyzed in relation to the frames provided by these researchers and political activists. Through readings, journals and group presentations, students will explore both the beneficial and problematic aspects of forgiving. Students will develop a warranted, personal position on forgiveness and its limitations in personal and social life.		

MET IS 450: Botany without Borders
	Online offering. Introduces students to practical problems in botany with a dual emphasis on plant evolution and plants in human affairs. The course crosses borders in time and geography as we examine the broad sweep of plants and their role on Earth over the past 300 million years. Plant form and function, evolution of seed plants, plant ecology, ethnobotany (human uses of plants), endangered plant communities, and prospects for conserving plant biodiversity are highlighted in this interdisciplinary course designed for undergraduates. While its focus is rigorously scientific, the course incorporates topics in the humanities (for example visual arts), and social sciences (anthropology) to illustrate the close relationship between humans and plants.  Fur further information, call the Office of Distance Education at 617-358-1960.		

MET IS 460: Romanticism and Its Off-Shoots: Countering the Enlightenment in Philosophical Literature and the Visual Arts
	This course explores various currents, paradoxes, and extensions of Romanticism, especially as this movement took shape in Europe and America, with a special focus on philosophical literature and the visual arts. We will begin with some central ideas and themes of German Romantic thinkers, exploring how these ideas and themes are also evoked by British and American writers as well as by European and American painters. We will identify and analyze Romantic themes and styles in early German expressionist films, in British gothic fantasy movies, and in American motion pictures about western frontier heroes. In the concluding part of the course, we will study twentieth-century extension or ?offshoots? of Romanticism, such as existentialism, depth-psychology, and the philosophy of nature. (4 cr.)		

MET IS 470: Biblical Archaeology: Methods, Theories, Contexts
	This course is designed to examine important archaeological discoveries relating to the Bible. It will focus on two significant cultural settings: the rise of Judah and Israel 3000 years ago, and questions about the historical Jesus. The course will cover the geography and topography of Palestine and the ancient Near East, and archaeological field methods used in Israel and Palestine. The history of writing and significant manuscript discoveries, such as the Dead Sea Scrolls, will also be examined. Throughout the course, students will examine how archaeologists, looters, forgers, journalists, and theologians fight each other for the opportunity to discover, interpret, and sensationalize artifacts for the religious and irreligious alike. As we examine the archaeological artifacts, students will situate them in terms of their interpretation in documentary films, recent book publications, and other modern media.		

MET IS 480: Physics of Motion: Something in the Way it Moves
	Mechanics is the study of the motion of objects and the forces acting on objects. It is hoped that the student will share some of the excitement felt by great scientists such as Galileo and Newton when they discovered many of the principles on which the physics of motion are based. The course assumes that the student has a working knowledge of algebra, but the emphasis will be on a conceptual understanding of physics rather than on advanced mathematics. Many demonstrations and animations will be presented in the course, and the student will become familiar with the physics of many everyday situations. 4 cr 		

MET IS 491: Directed Study
	Independent study under faculty guidance. Prior approval of program director required.		

MET IS 492: Directed Study
	Independent study under faculty guidance. Prior approval of program director required.		

MET LD 621: Web and Information Technologies for Leaders
	This course examines the role of information technology for providing effective leadership in a networked word. It provides an overview of the key technical concepts of information systems, networks, and databases, relates them to organizational structure  and function, and demonstrates how they can be used and leveraged for successful leadership. The course also provides knowledge of and skills in using web technologies, traditional  and Web2 tools, for presentation and distribution of information, building efficient communications and collaborations between individuals, working groups, as well as for disseminating knowledge to large population groups.		

MET LD 630: Leadership: Historic and Social Perspectives
	This course will examine the underlying values of organizations and guides students through the evolutionary development of successful leadership models. Students will be exposed to multiple profiles and strategies of renowned leaders with a diverse set of challenges reflecting innovative and evolving methodologies. 4 cr.		

MET LD 705: Leadership in a Dynamic Environment
	This course will analyze the values, behaviors, and processes that lead people and organizations to become effective leaders in their chosen field and as a consequence to build sustainable and lasting competitive advantages. 4 cr.		

MET LD 740: Group and Organizational Dynamics
	The concept of a team is the unit of an organization where leaders develop influencing skills. The team is defined as a group of individuals that one directly works with or within. The practice of leading teams involves the practice of organizing diverse personalities, cultures, and with varying skill sets. The students will be exposed to principles of team characteristics, process, team faces, and the actual product of the team.  There will be a pragmatic approach of structured lectures, case evaluation, group evaluation, and individual evaluation for growth. 		

MET LF 111: First-Semester French
	For students who have never studied French. Main patterns of grammar, conversation practice, written exercises, and directed compositions. Four hours weekly. Lab required. 		

MET LF 112: Second-Semester French
           			Be A fast, fun, and flexible Beginning Intermediate French course, LF211 is a continuing French course for  recent beginners and for those who have been away from the language for a while. Classes focus attention  on grammar, vocabulary, and structure of French, emphasizing the basic communication skills: listening,  speaking, reading, and writing. The course features a hands-on, task-based approach, and includes an  extensive online component.		

MET LS 110: Spanish for Medical Professionals
	This course provides the practical vocabulary, phrases and grammar structures that you need to communicate with Spanish speaking patients and their family. In order to master these new language skills you will practice them in everyday situations such as answering the phone, greeting patients and family, establishing rapport, conducting a clinical interview, referring a patient to a specialist, giving a diagnosis, giving recommendations on diet, exercise, medications, etcetera. The course will include a variety of interactive situations including role play, audio or video recordings, telephone or video conference, or conversation with invited guests. Segments dedicated to cultural aspects will provide valuable information on Hispanic customs and will help you to better understand your patient?s needs and perceptions. After completing this course you will still need to rely on medical interpreters for more complex interactions and for legal purposes; however, you will be able to ask for and, using a variety of strategies, understand and communicate essential information. You will also have a solid base on which to continue developing your Spanish either formally through classes or informally in continued conversation with your clients and patients.		

MET LS 111: First-Semester Spanish
	 For students who have never studied Spanish. Introduction to grammatical structures and Hispanic culture. Emphasis on aural comprehension, speaking, and pronunciation. Four hours weekly. Lab required. 		

MET LS 112: Second-Semester Spanish
           			Completes study of basic grammatical structures. Emphasis on speaking and aural comprehension. Readings on contemporary Hispanic culture. Writing assignments. Four hours weekly. Lab required.		

MET LS 211: Third-Semester Spanish
	Involves the study of grammatical structures of Spanish. Students will use spoken language in conversation, and read about Hispanic civilization and contemporary short stories. Writing exercises will involve more complex grammatical and syntactical patterns.  		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET MA 113: Elementary Statistics
           			MA 113 may not be taken for credit by any student who has completed any MA course numbered 300 or higher. Students may receive credit for not more than one of the following courses: MET MA 113, MA 213, or CAS MA 113, MA 115, or MA 213. Basic concepts of estimation and tests of hypotheses, ideas from probability; one-, two-, and multiple-sample problems. Applications in social sciences. Primarily for students in the social sciences who require a one-semester introduction to statistics, others should consider CAS MA 115 or MA 213. 		

MET MA 118: College Algebra and Trigonometry
           			Intensive one-semester course in algebra and trigonometry. Prepares students to study calculus. Algebraic operations, word problems, linear and quadratic functions, and identities. Analytic geometry. Exponential and logarithmic functions. MET MA 118 may be taken for CAS credit but does not satisfy the CAS mathematics requirement. 		

MET MA 120: Applied Mathematics for Social and Management Sciences
	Linear equations, systems of linear equations, matrix algebra, exponential functions and logarithms, elements of differential calculus, optimization, probability. Applications in economics, finance, and management. Note: MET MA 120 may be taken for CAS credit. 		

MET MA 121: Calculus for the Life and Social Sciences I
	Students may receive credit for either MET MA 121 or MA 123 or CAS MA 121 or MA 123, but not both. Differentiation and integration of functions of one variable. Same topics as MA 123, but with less emphasis on mathematical generality and more on application. Especially suitable for students concentrating in the biological and social sciences. 		

MET MA 123: Calculus I
           			Students may receive credit for either MET MA 121 or MA 123 or CAS MA 121 or MA 123, but not both. Limits; derivatives; differentiation of algebraic functions. Applications to maxima, minima, and convexity of functions. The definite integral; the fundamental theorem of integral calculus; applications of integration. 		

MET MA 124: Calculus II
           			Students may receive credit for not more than one of the following courses: MA 122, MA 124, MA 127, or MA 129. Logarithmic, exponential, and trigonometric functions. Sequences and series; Taylor's series with the remainder. Methods of integration. Calculus I and II together constitute an introduction to calculus of a function of a single real variable.		

MET MA 213: Basic Statistics and Probability
           			Elementary treatment of probability densities, means, variances, correlation, independence, the binomial distribution, and the central limit theorem. Stresses understanding and theoretical manipulation of statistical concepts. Note: Credit will be given for only one of the following courses: MET MA 113 or MA 213. 		

MET MA 214: Applied Statistics
           			Inference about proportions, goodness of fit, student's t-distribution, and tests for normality. Two-sample comparisons, regression and correlation, tests for linearity and outliers, residual analysis, contingency tables, and analysis of variance. 		

MET MA 225: Multivariate Calculus
           			Vectors, lines, and planes. Multiple integration and cylindrical and spherical coordinates. Partial derivatives, directional derivatives, scalar and vector fields, the gradient, potentials, multivariate Taylor series, approximation, and multivariate minimization. 		

MET MA 581: Probability
		Basic probability, conditional probability, independence. Discrete and continuous random variables, mean and variance, functions of random variables, moment generating function. Jointly distributed random variables, conditional distributions, independent random variables. Methods of transformations, law of large numbers, central limit theorem. 		

MET MA 582: Mathematical Statistics
		Interval estimation. Point estimation including sufficiency, Rao-Blackwell theorem, completeness, uniqueness, Rao-Cramer inequality, and maximum likelihood estimation. Tests of hypothesis: uniformly most powerful tests, uniformly most powerful unbiased tests, likelihood ratio test, chi-squared test, comparison of means and variances, ANOVA, regression, and some nonparametric tests. 		

MET MA 603: SAS with Statistical Applications
           			Offers a unified and in-depth coverage of the statistical computer package SAS, and its statistical applications. Topics include the language of SAS, data formatting, creating and storing SAS data sets, file manipulations, macro procedure, and graphics. Also included are procedures for statistical techniques selected from analysis of variance, regression, factor analysis, scoring, and categorical data analysis. Several large data sets will be used as case studies emphasizing hands-on experience with SAS for Windows. Laboratory course. 		

MET MG 101: Accounting I
	Basic principles of financial accounting underlying transaction analysis and the preparation of financial statements.		

MET MG 102: Accounting II
           			Financial accounting in more specialized areas, such as partnerships, corporations, and the statement of cash flows. Managerial accounting topics, including capital budgeting and manufacturing cost systems for planning and control.		

MET MG 202: Personal Financial Planning
	The development of personal investment strategies using money and credit. Securities and portfolio management, budgeting, insurance, taxes, retirement programs, and estate planning.		

MET MG 205: Information Technologies: Hardware and Software
	This introductory course provides an introduction to PC, hardware, and software issues. Various types of software-applications and systems-are introduced. Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, and Microsoft Access are covered along with DOS and Windows operating systems. Detailed discussions of the latest PC hardware-motherboards, CPUs, memory boards, sound and video cards, CD-ROM drives, DVD drives, Video Capture boards, Zip drives, PCMCIA cards, USB and Firewire ports, and scores of other peripherals and multimedia devices. Instructions on how to use the Internet to upgrade PCs and peripherals. Students will also be able to upgrade/protect notebook computers and laser printers. (If students do not already own a PC, they are required to buy a PC.) Almost all students will buy components for upgrading a PC.		

MET MG 301: Introduction to Management
	A look at the management of an enterprise from the perspective of the chief executive officer. Covers the functions of organizing for successful management. Survey of theories and techniques. Examination of case studies.		

MET MG 302: Introduction to American Management for International Students
MET MG 304: Principles of Finance
           			Introduction to tools of financial analysis and the problems of financial management including cash, profitability, and capital budgeting. Various sources of corporate funds are considered--short-, intermediate-, and long-term arrangements. MA 120, MA 213, EC 101, and EC 102 are strongly recommended before taking this course. 		

MET MG 305: Principles of Marketing
	The organization and operation of marketing functions within individual firms. A look at methods of product determination, channels of distribution, and advertising and sales promotion. Administration of total marketing program. Readings, class discussions, lectures, and case analyses.		

MET MG 310: Business Communication
	Organization and techniques for effective verbal and written communication in the business environment. Emphasis on developing communication skills through practical written and oral assignments.		

MET MG 315: Operations Management
	Introduction to the operating functions of a firm. Emphasis on problem-solving skills using analytical techniques. Includes production planning and inventory control, quality control, forecasting, capacity planning, and work-study. Viewed from the aspect of management. 		

MET MG 320: Managerial Psychology
	Development of management and organization theory; nature and function of the management process. Motivation, perception, anxiety, and communication. Process and problems of organizational change. 		

MET MG 410: Entrepreneurial Management: Starting, Innovating, and Managing Small-, Medium-, and Large-Sized Ventures
	Covers the four key elements of successful entrepreneurial management: choosing a business, organizing, financing, and marketing. Includes preparing a business plan, becoming an entrepreneur, raising venture capital, selling, negotiating, and building an effective organization. Topics given special consideration are the practice of innovation, the art of leadership, and how to relate talents to succeeding in an innovative managed venture and technology management. 		

MET MG 411: Marketing Communications
           			Examines the tools and techniques of communications used in marketing products, ideas, or services. Focus on analyzing, designing, selecting, and evaluating marketing communication strategies. 		

MET MG 415: Project Management
	An examination of project management concepts, including organizational forms, planning and control techniques, and the role of the project manager. Develops the skills vital to effective management of multidisciplinary tasks through lectures, case studies, and business simulations. 		

MET MG 420: International Finance
           			Introduction to international financial markets and institutions. Foreign exchange markets, capital flows; speculation and analysis of alternative foreign investment; financial planning for multinational corporations; and analysis of sources and uses of corporate funds abroad. 		

MET MG 431: International Marketing
	Organization of the marketing function in international business. How government policies and practices affect marketing. Comparative marketing strategies for doing business abroad. Examination of case studies.		

MET MG 435: Advertising
	The structure and operating procedures of advertising agencies and corporate advertising departments in relation to marketing. Active student participation in learning how advertising strategies and concepts are developed and executed. Includes readings, development of advertising strategies, screenings, and analysis of contemporary advertising. 		

MET MG 448: Electronic Commerce, Systems, and Web Design
	The first course in a two course sequence. This course combines (1) the practical aspect of Web design through the use of application software such as Dreamweaver to construct a commercial Web site with (2) a general overview of the marketing, supporting services, systems, security and business strategy issues facing commercial enterprises. 4 cr		

MET MG 460: Senior Project I
	The first course of two for completion of the senior project for the degree completion program.		

MET MG 461: Senior Project II
	The second course of two for completion of the senior project for the degree completion program.		

MET MG 472: Financial Concepts
	Emphasizes issues of accounting, finance, and economics that are important in most management contexts. Introduction to tools of financial analysis and the problems of financial management including cash, profitability, and capital budgeting. Various sources of corporate funds are considered - short-, intermediate-, and long-term arrangements Stresses understanding financial statements, planning and control, cost and benefit evaluation, cash flow analysis, and capital budgeting. 		

MET MG 473: Quantitative and Qualitative Decision Making
	This is a basic level course combining the elements of quantitative and qualitative decision making for business. The course exposes the student to practical quantitative approaches to mathematical decision making as well as a wind variety of qualitative approaches for both the services and product industries. Emphasis is placed on the definition of the problem, analysis of the approaches available to solve the problem, an understanding of the limitations and strengths of these approaches as well as the resources necessary. The course additionally prepares the student with design and presentation skills necessary to organize the communications of stating the problem and its different solution or outcome possibilities when the rational for taking a particular course of action needs to be presented to others or the material is being prepared for others who will make business decisions based on the information. 4 cr.		

MET MG 493: Special Topics
	This course description is currently under construction.		

MET MG 503: Business in a Changing Society
           			An examination of the management process and the social environment in which organizations operate, including a discussion of the manager's responsibilities to employees, customers, stockholders, and society.		

MET MG 505: Quantitative Methods in Management
           			Quantitative procedures used to study underlying structure of decision-making problems in business and industry. Includes limitations of the management science methodology.		

MET MG 509: Case Studies in Current Corporate Financial Topics
           			Financial forecasting and planning: capital budgeting, cost of capital, dividend policy, rate of return, and financial aspects of growth. Readings and extensive use of case studies. 		

MET MG 512: Financial Markets and Institutions
           			Investigation and analysis of organization, structure, and performance of U.S. money, capital, markets, and institutions. Examines regulation of the financial industry and the role of financial instruments. 		

MET MG 515: Negotiations and Organizational Conflict Resolution
		A communications skills course designed to better understand the nature of conflict and its resolution through persuasion, collaboration, and negotiation. Students will learn theories of interpersonal and organizational conflict and its resolution as applied to personal, corporate, historical, and political contexts. Students will assess their own styles, skills, and values, and develop techniques to better resolve disputes, achieve objectives, and exert influence.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET MG 517: Investment Analysis and Portfolio Management
           			Mechanics of securities markets, types of available investments, and an introduction to determination of securities values. Problems of investment policy are approached through studies of portfolio selection methods, and the valuation of special classes of securities (i.e., growth stocks). 		

MET MG 520: International Business Management
	Environmental, economic, political, and social constraints on doing business abroad. Examines the effects of overseas business investments on domestic and foreign economics; foreign market analysis and operational strategy of a firm; and development potential of international operations. 		

MET MG 521: Organizational Behavior and Development
	Understanding relationships between individuals, social interaction patterns, technology, and organizational arrangements and their environmental context. Dimensions of effective organizational environments. Emphasis on analyzing and evaluating related contemporary theories and issues through case studies. 		

MET MG 522: Consumer Behavior
	A broad view of consumer attitudes, behavior, and decision-making processes. Uses computer and case studies to supplement text readings. 		

MET MG 523: Marketing Research
           			Discusses marketing management situations as a basis for examining various marketing research techniques. Uses methods of social and behavioral science in gathering, analyzing, and interpreting facts necessary for making decisions. Applications in professional practice. 		

MET MG 530: Business Strategy
	Policy problems of business organizations. Integrates the areas of marketing, finance, accounting, economics, and personnel into a managerial concept of business decision making. 		

MET MG 541: The Innovation Process: Developing New Products and Services
	Addresses the specifics of new product and service development and factors such as market research and partnering that add value and bring innovation to commercial reality. 4 cr		

MET MG 545: Introduction to American Management, Culture and Institutions
	This course is intended primarily for international students to introduce them to American  institutions -- business, educational, and political in particular -- within the context of American  history, popular culture, and society.  Students will learn about the unique features of American  management and enterprise.  The Boston metropolitan area will play an important role in  appreciating the overall historical and cultural context, as will contemporary issues, scholarship,  and unfolding events in illustrating distinctive features of American life and commerce.   		

MET MG 548: Electronic Commerce and Web Design II
           			The second course in a two course sequence. This course combines: (1) The advanced aspects of Web design through the enhanced use of application software such as fireworks and flash for Dreamweaver to construct a commercial Web site with (2) an in-depth understanding of marketing, supporting services, systems, security and business strategy issues facing commercial enterprises.		

MET MG 550: International Business Law and Regulation
	This course examines the international business, legal and regulatory environment. Topics include international legal comparisons, the international sale of goods, imports, and exports, technology transfer, intellectual property protection and forms, and regulations of foreign direct investment. 4cr. 		

MET MG 560: Web Technology and Languages
	This course presents a complete immersion into Web Technology, Internet, World Wide Web architecture, search engines, and Web page creation using the standard HTML language. Other topics include Dynamic HTML; scripting using JavaScript, VBScript and XML; server-side components such as CGI, ASP, and PERL. Develops knowledge and skills for both electronic commerce payment mechanisms and data transactions security of information and information systems within organizations.  Payment options for electronic commerce such as e-cash, SET, credit cards, systems design and methods of dealing with risks are covered. Other topics include: designing, implementing, managing, and auditing security at all levels; techniques for assessing risk associated with accidental and international breaches of security; ethical uses of information and privacy consideration; encryption; and digital certificates. (Not for computer science students).  		

MET MG 570: Business Law
	Explores the major areas of law as they relate to the business environment. The areas studied include personal injury law, contracts, the Uniform Commercial Code, partnership law, corporate law, transactions, and property law. This course provides a broad background on the legal issues that influence daily business operations. 		

MET ML 565: Food Marketing
	This course will explore marketing and brand management for food products, components and ingredients in the restaurant and retail industries. Of particular interest will be the convergence of various parts of the food system and the erosion of conceptual distinctions regarding the source and nature of prepared foods. This will include the extension of retail brands into the restaurant channel and vice versa, as well as the supply chain for agricultural and manufactured products consumed in the restaurant channel. The course will cover strategic and tactical marketing issues related to food including new product development, manufacturing and production, packaging, pricing and distribution. It will also cover relevant topics in consumer behavior, such as connoisseurship. Some attention will be give to sustainability, including the marketing dynamics related to the slow and organic foods movements. 4 credits		

MET ML 589: Nature's Past: Histories of Environment and Society
	Historians? approaches to environmental history, including human elements of technology, demography, local knowledge, political ecology, and social organization. Geographical foci include North America, Atlantic World, Asia, and Africa.		

MET ML 610: Special Topics in Gastronomy
	ML610 is the designation for "Special Topics in Gastronomy". The subject matter for ML610  courses changes from semester to semester, and more than one ML610 can be offered in a given  semester. Course descriptions for all ML610 sections are listed below. For more information,  please contact the department Graduate Student Advisor.<br> <br> Fall 2014 - MET ML610 A1 -  "The Big, Fat Fat-Controversy" (Dr. Karen Pepper):<br> The word "fat" is charged with many  meanings and associations.  There is the biochemical entity called fat, the stuff that fills our  adipose tissues. Fat, one of the macro-nutrients that constitute our food, is an ingredient in a  myriad of dishes.  Fat is associated with ill-health, particularly Type II diabetes.  Fat gives shape to  the human form, thus contributing to body image.  Effort may be expended, via dieting and  training, to eliminate bodily fat or reconfigure it as muscle.  And fat represents different things in  different cultures. This course will try to circle the girth of this amazingly rich subject.<br><br> Fall  2014 - MET ML610 C1 -"Food and Literature" (Dr. Maximillian Shrem):<br> The Invention of Modern-day Food Writing: Excursions into the Gastronomic Library from the 19th  to 21st Centuries:  Grounded in both literary and sociological approaches, the goals of the course  are threefold: 1) study food and consumption as a literary device; 2) examine the semantic  expansion of the term gourmand through literature (in other words, study the relationship between  the culinary and literary fields from a sociological perspective); 3) trace the origins of gastronomic  writing.  <br><br>Fall 2014 - MET ML610 S1 - "Making Wine" (Bill Nesto):<br> Course meets off-campus at  the Boston Winery Facility in Dorchester. 		

MET ML 611: Archaeology of Food in Ancient Times
	How people have obtained and processed a wide range of foods through time, beginning with early humans. Food used by hunter/gatherers; changes in diet and nutrition through time to early farmers. Examines archaeological evidence for types of plants and animals exploited for food, as well as human skeletal evidence for ancient nutrition and diseases related to diet and food stress. Consideration of early historical periods, especially in terms of how certain foods such as wine have played a significant role in culture beyond basic dietary needs. 		

MET ML 612: Pots and Pans: Material Culture of Food
	Exploration of the food cultures and technologies through material culture-  pots, pans, and utensils.    Course will range broadly across cultures, time,  and space with emphasis on medieval and early modern   times. Life histories  of humble, overlooked, everyday objects associated with food preparation  and   consumption; kitchens from prehistory to the present; tradition and  fashion in cooking & dining vessels;   pots and cooking technology; pots as  metaphors & symbols.  		

MET ML 614: Philosophy of Food
	"Tell me what you eat and I will tell you what you are."-- Anthelme Brillat-Savarin (1755-1826)   In this  course, we will use the tools of the philosopher to study various aspects of food--its classification,  preparation, consumption, and judgments about the practices affected by it.  The focus in this course  will be how philosophers contribute to food studies through engagement with long-standing  philosophical questions--not just in aesthetics, moral and political philosophy, but also in metaphysics  and epistemology.  Topics addressed in the class may include foods as natural (or non-natural) kinds;  cultural knowledge, know-how and food traditions; eating and identity; eating, rationality and norms;  vegetarianism and moral philosophy; and neuroscience, culture and taste.   		

MET ML 621: Researching Food History
	This research seminar in food history focuses on the markets and marketplaces over centuries and across a wide geographical area. The focus of this seminar is to hone students? research and writing skills. The broad general topic will allow students to pursue their own special research interest within a larger context while working with others engaged in similar research and writing challenges. By the end of the semester, students will have made a start on conference papers in the field of food studies and indentified potential venues for presenting their work. 4 cr		

MET ML 622: History of Food
	The scope of the course will be global, covering civilizations of Asia, America, Africa, and Europe  and how cultures of these domesticated unique staples, which literally enabled these civilizations  to expand and flourish. The course will cover history of the interaction of humans with food  resources from earliest hunting and gathering societies to the present. The major theme of the  course will be the process of globalization, imperialism and the growth of capitalist enterprise and  the cost of indigenous cultures and traditional farming practices and how these processes were  shaped by trade in food.  Online/blended course, face-to-face meetings TBA.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET ML 631: Culture and Cuisine: France
	The association between France and fine cuisine seems so "natural."  French society and history are intertwined with the culinary, and have been since the court society of the Old Regime.  After the French Revolution, French cuisine became a truly modern affair in the public sphere.  The invention of the restaurant, the practice of gastronomy, a literature of food, and strong links between French cuisine and national identity all came together in the 19th century.  In the 19th and 20th centuries, French food, featuring both haute cuisine and regional culinary specialties, was widely considered the world?s best. In the 20th century, the culinary allure of France continued to fascinate people all over the world.  It is still said today, enviously, that the French really know how to appreciate good food and wine "la bonne chÃ¨re" in their daily lives.  This course looks at how the history of French culinary culture evolved in the particular way that it did. The course is organized largely chronologically, but not entirely, as some of the readings weave issues of different times periods thematically. In studying culture and cuisine, with France as a great example, we will explore the relationship between a place, a people, and their foodways. We launch our investigation with the question: how and why is this relationship distinctive in France? 		

MET ML 632: History of Wine
	Understanding wine is impossible without knowing its rich and varied history. This course provides a survey of significant developments in the production, distribution, consumption and cultural uses of grape-based alcoholic beverages in the West. Topics include the role wine has played in the economy and culture of civilizations from the ancient Near East all the way through to its global impact in the 21st Century. We will focus in particular on wine as a religious symbol and a consumer beverage in the modern world. 		

MET ML 633: Readings in Food History
	A comparative perspective on issues of human subsistence through time. Changing patterns of nutrition and health, agricultural production, methods of coping with famine and organizing feasts, and origins and impact of culinary and dietary innovations.		

MET ML 638: Culture and Cuisine: New England
	How are the foodways of New England?s inhabitants, past and present, intertwined with the history and culture of this region?  In this course, students will have the opportunity to examine the cultural uses and meanings of foods and foodways in New England using historical, archaeological, oral, and material evidence.  We will focus on key cultural, religious and political movements that have affected foodways in the region, as well as the movement of people.  		

MET ML 639: Culture and Cuisine: Quebec
	Moving beyond the stereotypes of poutine and maple syrup, this course will explore the rich contemporary and historical foodscapes of Quebec. The cuisine of this predominantly French-speaking area of Canada has been marked by the lasting legacies of French, British and a variety of immigrant cultures. The result is a combination of fascinating traditions and some of the most exciting new culinary trends in the Northeast--from iced cider to head-to-tail eating. This course will look at questions of identity politics, heritage preservation and the development of sustainable local food systems, as well as the everyday culture and life of this unique Canadian province. Offered in a blended format, class will meet once a month face-to-face and on-line before and after a weeklong trip to Quebec City, Montreal and surrounding rural areas. While in Quebec, students will have a chance to meet farmers, artisans and culinary professionals and engage in a number of hands-on activities.		

MET ML 641: Anthropology of Food
	What can food tell us about human culture and social organization? Food offers us many opportunities to explore the ways in which humans go about their daily lives from breaking bread at the family table, haggling over the price of meat at the market to worrying about having enough to eat. Food can also tell us about larger social organizations and global interconnections through products like Spam that are traded around the globe and the ways in which a fruit like the tomato transformed the culinary culture of European nations. In this course we will consider how the Anthropology of Food has developed as a subfield of Cultural Anthropology. We will also look at the various methodologies and theoretical frameworks used by anthropologists to study food and culture. 4 cr.		

MET ML 642: Food Ethnography
	This course explores what food ethnography is and how food ethnographers work. Students will learn about food ethnography by reading and discussing its methods and by practicing them. Students will write a research design for an ethnographic project on some aspect of Boston?s multifaceted alternative food system, carry out the research, analyze their data, and write up and orally present the results. Students will learn about and use the methods of participant observation, interviews, photography, food mapping, informant documentation, food logs, and others. They will learn about research ethics. They will pay particular attention to the ways that studying food culture presents unique methods and insights.		

MET ML 643: Special Topic: Food, Culture and Exchange - The Economic Anthropology of Food
	Economic exchanges are influenced by culture. This is particularly true when it comes to exchanges that have to do with food. This course explores the cultural aspects of economics and food, serving as a lens through which to view the complex human relations and exchanges known as economics. Discussion of topics such as gift exchange, bartering and the question of the commons, as well as the economics of local food, reconnecting consumers with their food supply, urban foraging and alternate economic activities related to food production and consumption. Using an anthropological framework to understand the cultural aspects of exchange, the course will cover the economic and cultural underpinnings of food systems throughout the world.  4 credits  		

MET ML 651: Fundamentals of Wine
	For students without previous knowledge of wine, this introductory survey explores the world of wine through lectures, tastings, and assigned readings. By the end of this course, students will be able to 1). Exhibit fundamental knowledge of the principal categories of wine, including major grape varieties, wine styles, and regions; 2). Correctly taste and classify wine attributes; 3). Understand general principles of food and wine pairing; and 4). Comprehend the process of grape growing and winemaking. Open only to matriculated gastronomy students.		

MET ML 652: A Comprehensive Survey of Wine
	Students passing this course will attain proficiency in the field of wine and associated alcoholic beverages.  This intensive survey covers each of the world's most important geographical areas and includes  comprehensive comparative tastings.  The final examination includes a tasting as well as a written  component. 		

MET ML 653: Mastering Wine: Skill Development
		Provides students with mastery of the field of alcoholic beverages. The curriculum is divided into the following sections: viticulture, vinification, distillation and brewing; wine tasting, including blind tasting; the interaction of wine and food; and the business of wine. Examination covers tasting skills, factual information and essay writing. 4 credits, Wed. 6-9. FUL Room 122.   		

MET ML 654: The Wine Trade: Global, National and Local Perspectives
		Gives students an in-depth understanding of issues confronting national wine industries and how these issues relate to the U.S. and local wine trade.  Students develop understanding and professional skills by researching assigned topics, participating in teacher-led discussions, and tasting numerous wines under the guidance of instructors. Specialists in the wine trade visit to contribute their expertise and provide an interface to the trade.  Students share independent research with classmates by giving presentations and researching relevant topics which highlight issues currently facing the wine industry. The format of this course requires students to do independent research, which may be presented in class and/or submitted in the form of an essay. 		

MET ML 671: Food and Visual Culture
	An extensive historical exploration into prints, drawings, film, television, and photography relating to food  in the United States and elsewhere. Examines how food images represent aesthetic concerns, social habits,  demographics, domestic relations, and historical trends. 		

MET ML 672: Special Topics: Art and Food
	Focusing on the dialogue between gastronomy and art, from antiquity to the present, this seminar offers students the opportunity to research the work of artists who represented food, drink, harvest and hunger, the role of the decorative arts in dining and the relationship of national traditions of art and cuisine. Students test the validity of analogies that scholars have drawn between developments in the two areas of endeavor. Uncharted areas of affinity linking art and cuisine are explored. Providing an introduction to fundamental aspects of the art historical periods in question, the course is designed to accommodate students without previous formal study of art history. Those with prior experience in the discipline will be given new purchase on the art.		

MET ML 673: A Survey of Food in Film
	We can all take pleasure in eating good food, but what about watching other people eat or cook food? This course will survey the history of food in film. It will pay particular attention to how food and foodways are depicted as expressions of culture, politics, and group or personal identity. We will watch a significant number of films, both fiction and non-fiction, classic and modern. A good portion of class time will also be given to discussing the readings in combination with hands-on, in-depth analysis of the films themselves. 		

MET ML 681: Food Writing for the Media
	Students will develop and improve food-writing skills through the study of journalistic ethics; advertising; scientific and technological matters; recipe writing; food criticism; anthropological and historical writing about food; food in fiction, magazines and newspapers. 4 cr		

MET ML 691: Nutrition and Diet: Why What You Eat Matters
	This course is designed to introduce major concepts in nutrition and diet to students of food studies and other disciplines who have limited or no background in the biological sciences. The overarching goal is to develop a working understanding of the basic science of nutrition and apply this knowledge to personal health and professional settings. The course begins with the fundamentals of nutrition and diet, focusing on macro- and micronutrient intakes and needs throughout the life course. Food-based nutrition will also be discussed, alongside dietary guidelines, recommendations, and food labels. Moving from the individual level to the larger public health arena, we will also examine such topics as nutritional ecology, influences on dietary intakes, overnutrition, and undernutrition.  A running theme throughout will be critiquing how diet and nutrition are treated in the media and press.		

MET ML 692: Evaluating and Developing Markets for Cultural Tourism
	Cultural tourism in the 21st century is more than the traditional passive activities of visiting a museum, hearing a concert or strolling down an historic street. It has become an active, dynamic branch of tourism in which half of all tourists have stated that they want some cultural activities during their vacation. In this course we will introduce various themes of cultural tourism including the relationship between the Tourist Industry and the Cultural Heritage Manager, conservation and preservation vs. utilization of a cultural asset, authenticity vs. commoditization, stakeholders and what should be their rights and obligations, tangible and intangible tourist assets, the role of government, private industry and the non-profit sectors in tourism planning and sustainable economic development. We will examine these themes in different areas of cultural tourism including the art industry, historical sites, cultural landmarks, special events and festivals, theme parks and gastronomy. 		

MET ML 698: Laboratory in the Culinary Arts: Cooking
	Exposes students to a craft-based understanding of the culinary arts from which to better understand how food and cuisine fit into the liberal arts and other disciplines and cultures. The course integrates personal experience and theory through discipline by training students in the classic and modern techniques and theories of food production, through cooking and working efficiently, effectively, and safely, and by introducing students to foods of various cultures and cuisines from around the world. Open only to matriculated gastronomy students. Cannot be taken in addition to ML 700. 4 cr		

MET ML 699: Laboratory in the Culinary Arts: Baking
	Exposes students to a craft-based understanding of the culinary arts from which to better understand how food and cuisine fit into the liberal arts and other disciplines and cultures. The course integrates personal experience and theory through discipline by training students in the classic and modern techniques and theories of food production, through pastry and baking methods as well as working efficiently, effectively, and safely, and by introducing students to baking techniques from various cultures and cuisines from around the world. Open only to matriculated gastronomy students. Cannot be taken in addition to ML 700.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET ML 700: Culinary Arts Laboratory
	Founded in 1989 by Julia Child and Jacques PÃ©pin--who continues to teach in the program each   semester--the Certificate Program in the Culinary Arts at Boston University's Metropolitan College is a   unique course of study that introduces participants to the essential techniques, knowledge, and hands-  on experience necessary to excel in the food industry.<br><br> The Laboratory in the Culinary Arts for  Spring 2014, is an 8 credit course that meets Mondays through  Thursdays, 10:30 until 6 pm,  depending on evaluating your work and cleanup time. Morning class is  usually a lecture, a food  demonstration or a field trip. The afternoon session, which begins at 1 pm,  sharp, is hands-on cooking.  You will learn the cooking skills and techniques of France, the Americas, and  Italy, as well as other  ethnic techniques of food preparation. Tuition is $6,240 plus a $4,000 lab fee. The  program is taught  entirely by working chefs and industry professionals from Boston and beyond-- serving as an ideal  entrÃ©e to hundreds of food-related careers, from culinary writing to restaurant  management to  working as a chef. Our skilled team of core instructors comprises esteemed local  restaurant owners,  chefs, and consultants, while our visiting instructors include renowned chefs and  restaurateurs from  around the nation. <br><br> Some of our faculty for Spring 2014 are:   Jacques Pepin, John Vyhnanek,  author, past owner of Harvard Street Grill, past  executive chef at the Ritz Carlton Hotel, Boston,  restaurant consultant; Jean Jacques Paimblanc, past  executive chef Legal Sea Foods, Pavilion, Howard  Johnsons, Panera Bread, Signature Breads; Janine  Sciarappa, pastry chef; Chris Douglass, owner/chef  Ashmont Grill, Tavolo, past owner Icarus; Jeremy  Sewall, executive chef/co-owner Eastern Standard,  Island Creek Oyster Bar and Grill, Lineage; Michael  Leviton, executive chef/owner Lumiere, Area Four,  Jeff Fournier, 51 Lincoln, Barry Maiden, Hungry  Mother. The following instructors will have taught this  semester either one or more times: Deborah  Hansen, Taberna de Hara; Ihsan Gurdal, Formaggio  Kitchen;  Sam Huang, Super Fusion;  Sandy Block;  Master of Wine; Jim Dodge, world famous baker;   Max Harvey, Jasper White's Summer Shack; Bess  Emanuel, food consultant; Fabrizia Lanza, consultant  and owner Anna Tasca Lanza Culinary School,  Sicily; Nina Gallant, food photographer; Bill Nesto,  Master of Wine; Irene Costello and Joan Mac Isaac,  food product producers; Raymond Ost, chef/owner  Sandrine's Restaurant; Joseph Polak, Rabbi and  expert on Kosher foods, Boston University Hillel;  Patrick Dubsky, owner Winestone and former  sommelier;  Jean --Claude Szurdak on French pastries;  Sheryl Julian, food editor of the Boston Globe;  Joseph Carlin, food historian; Priscilla Martel, baker;  Mary Ann Esposito, expert on foods of Italy, Leo  Romero, expert on culture and cuisine of Mexico,  owner/chef Casa Romero; Jackson Cannon, mixologist  and sommelier;  Garrett Harker, owner Eastern  Standard and Island Creek Oyster Bar and Grill; and  many others. <br><br> This intensive, four-month   Program in the Culinary Arts provides a strong foundation in classic French  and modern cooking  techniques, along with exposure to  international cuisines. Under the tutelage of  professional working  chefs and food industry experts, you will engage in lectures and demonstrations,  and acquire hands-on  experience in our state-of-the-art laboratory kitchen--one of the finest in the  country. From simple  techniques to more difficult and complex preparations, you will develop valuable  cooking skills  through discipline and practice.  The program also provides a broader understanding of  the past,  present, and future of the global food economy, and the principles of small- and large-scale  food  production.<br><br>  There is no other course of this kind offered anywhere. It is a perfect fit to the  interdisciplinary  approach to food studies in the Gastronomy Program. Only 12 students are admitted  into this course  each semester. Lisa Falso is the exclusive supervisor for this program. She will guide  you throughout  the four-months. Students have access to our extensive collection of historic  cookbooks, which includes  seminal literature on gastronomy, cuisine, and wine studies. 		

MET ML 701: Introduction to Gastronomy: Theory and Methodology
	This course is designed to introduce students to current and foundational issues in food studies and   gastronomy. Through this focus on central topics, students will engage directly in the interdisciplinary   method that is central to food studies. Each week will introduce a unique view of the holistic approach   that is central to a liberal arts approach to studying food and a new research technique will be   presented and put into practice through the readings and course exercises. This course will give   Gastronomy students a better understanding of the field as a whole. While providing an overview and   methodological toolbox, it will act as a springboard in to areas of specialization of the course. 4 cr.		

MET ML 704: Special Topics
	Fall 2014 - MET ML704 C1 - Special Topic: "Beer & Spirits."<br>  In this course  we will explore the great variety of beer styles and spirit  categories  currently available and the role each plays in our culture. We will  survey  significant developments in the historical evolution, production,  distribution,  consumption and cultural usage of these alcoholic beverages in the  US. We will  taste beer and spirits extensively to demonstrate examples of the  most  important categories and classifications. 2 credits. <br><br> Fall 2014 - MET  ML704 S1  - Special Topic: "Starting Your Own Food Business."<br> No matter what  type of  food business one wants to start, a plan and expert advice on how to go  about it  is necessary.  The goal of this course is to introduce the  fundamentals of food  service business planning, focusing on restaurants, cafes,  bistros and personal  chef businesses. Topics from food safety to employee  management to finances and  operations will be covered by instructors  experienced in many aspects of  successful food businesses, along with guest  speakers from the industry. The  culmination of the course is a working business  plan to aid the student in the  realization of their concept. 2 credits.<br><br>		

MET ML 705: Artisan Cheeses of the World
	An in-depth exploration of the styles and production of cheeses from regions around the world, from their beginnings on the farm to the finished products at the table. 2 cr		

MET ML 706: Food and Gender
	This course takes an anthropological, cross-cultural, and interdisciplinary approach to food and gender,  looking at how masculinity and femininity are defined through beliefs and practices surrounding food and  body.  It explores theories of gender and methods for studying it and engages students in ethnographic  research on gender and food.		

MET ML 707: Directed Study
		Students may work with a full-time Boston University faculty member to complete a Directed Study  project on a topic relevant to the program.  These projects must be arranged with and approved by  Gastronomy program coordinator.		

MET ML 708: Directed Study
		Prereq: consent of coordinator. 		

MET ML 709: Directed Study
	Directed Study - Permission Required. 		

MET ML 711: The Many Meanings of Meat
	There is perhaps no foodstuff more prized than meat, and there is none more problematic. Long associated with power, masculinity, vitality, and progress, meat is also linked to imperialism, sexism, speciesism, environmental collapse, foodborne disease, and chronic illness. In this comprehensive overview we will examine meat's many historical, economic, ecological, ethical, and nutritional dimensions. Coursework will include a wide variety of readings, online discussions, written assignments, field trips, and other experiential opportunities.  4 credits		

MET ML 712: The Sociology of Food and Labor
	This course will bring a sociological perspective to the study of food and labor by exploring farming,  farmers, and food production in the United States. Using an intersectional lens of class, race, gender,  and sexuality, we will explore such questions as: How are social categories relevant to farming? What  are the social and cultural narratives shaping our current understanding of farmers and farming? What  is the relationship of this narrative to the recent upsurge of beginning farmers? How is food production  influenced by, and influencing, social life? While much of the course reading is based in social science  scholarship, material will include fiction, popular and visual media, memoir, and documentary film.  Assignments include co-facilitation of one discussion, two short analytical papers, and a final  paper/project.		

MET ML 713: Agricultural History
	This course surveys the history of American agriculture from the colonial era to the present.  It examines  how farmers understood markets, made crop choices, adopted new technologies, developed political  identities, and sought government assistance.  Emphasis on the environmental, ideological, and  institutional impact of farm modernization and industrialization.		

MET ML 714: Urban Agriculture
	Growing food in urban contexts raises interesting questions about food access, nutrition education, perceptions of public spaces and the place of nature in the urban environment. This course focuses on urban agriculture in Boston and a number of case studies from around the globe. Students visit gardens, learn basic cultivation skills through hands-on activities, and study the social and cultural sides of urban agriculture, as well as the political and city planning aspects of urban agriculture projects. 4 cr.		

MET ML 715: Food and the Senses
	This course is an interdisciplinary exploration of the sensory foundations and implications of food.  We  will study the senses as physical and cultural phenomena, the evolving concepts of terroir and craft,  human nutritional and behavioral science, sensory perception and function, and the sensory and  scientific aspects of food preparation and consumption.   Understanding these processes, constructions  and theories is key to understanding a vast array of food-related topics; cheese-making, wine-tasting,  fermentation, food preservation, culinary tools and methods, cravings and food avoidance,  sustainability and terroir, to name just a few. 		

MET ML 720: Food Policy and Food Systems
	This course presents frameworks and case studies that will advance participants' understandings of U.S. and global food systems and policies. Adopting food-systems and food-chain approaches, it provides historical, cultural, theoretical and practical perspectives on world food problems and patterns of dietary and nutritional change, so that participants acquire a working knowledge of the ecology and politics of world hunger and understand the evolution of global-to-local food systems and diets. Global overview of world food situations will be combined with more detailed national and local-level case studies and analysis that connect global to local food crisis and responses.  		

MET ML 721: US Food Policy and Culture
	This course overviews the forces shaping U.S. food policies, cultural politics, diet, and nutrition situations in the twenty-first century.  After reviewing the history of U.S. domestic food policy, course discussions consider globalization, new agricultural and food technologies, new nutrition knowledge, immigration, and "sustainable-food" ideology as drivers of American dietary and food-regulatory change.  "Food systems," "food chains," and "dietary structure" provide the major analytical frameworks for tracing how food moves from farm to table, and the role of local through national government and non-government institutions in managing these food flows.  		

MET ML 722: Studies in Food Activism
	In this class students will explore the work of anthropologists and other social scientists on food  activism citizens' efforts to promote social and economic justice through food practices and challenge  the global corporate agrifood system.  The class will explore diverse individual and collective forms of  food activism including veganism, gleaning, farmers' markets, organic farming, fair trade, CSAs, buying  groups, school gardens, anti-GMO movements, Slow Food, Via Campesina, and others. It will address  the questions: what is food activism, what are its goals, what is working and not working, and what are  the results? 		

MET ML 800: Masters Project
	Students nearing the completion of their degree requirement for the MLA in Gastronomy may register for the Masters Project. This graduation requirement is available for students who entered the MLA program during or after Fall 2009. The Masters Project must be completed under the direction of a full-time Boston University faculty member. The coordinator of the Gastronomy program must approve a topic, outline, bibliography and schedule for the project. Please contact the program coordinator for further details and guidelines. Students must also concurrently enroll in ML 802. 2 cr.		

MET ML 801: Masters Thesis
		Students nearing the completion of their degree requirement for the MLA in Gastronomy may register for the Masters Project.  This graduation requirement is required for students who entered the MLA program before Fall 2009. The Masters Thesis must be completed under the direction of a full-time Boston University faculty member. The coordinator of the Gastronomy program must approve a topic, outline, bibliography and schedule for the project. Please contact the program coordinator for further details and guidelines. 4 cr.		

MET PH 101: Basic Problems of Philosophy
	Introduction to classical philosophical problems concerning human nature and knowledge, freedom and morality, and reason and justice. 		

MET PH 110: Great Philosophers
	Introduction to the life and thought of five preeminent philosophers from classical times through the modern era.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET PH 150: Introduction to Ethics
	Who ought we to be, what ought we to do, what ought we to strive for? Examination of our obligations to ourselves, to other humans, and to the natural world in light of ethical theory and contemporary problems. Readings from a wide range of texts in philosophical ethics. 		

MET PH 155: Politics and Philosophy
	A study of the theoretical foundations of modern industrial democracy, with special attention paid to the Enlightenment.  Readings from Machiavelli, Locke, Rousseau, Madison and Toqueville. 4cr.		

MET PH 160: Reasoning and Argumentation
	A systematic study of the principles of both deductive and informal reasoning, with an emphasis on reasoning and argumentation in ordinary discourse. 		

MET PH 248: Existentialism
	Analysis of existentialism as a movement or orientation in contemporary philosophy.  Topics include contingency and the grounds for belief and value; depth, superficiality, and the intense life; commitment and open-mindedness; tragedy and the healthy self; boredom, anxiety, and adventure; and existentialism as a philosophy of the possible.		

MET PH 265: Minds and Machines
	An examination of the efforts of artificial intelligence to model the human mind and explain human thought by means of suitably programmed computers. Attention is given to the historical and mathematical origins of such efforts, as well as the main psychological and philosophical assumptions on which they depend. 		

MET PH 270: Philosophy of Science
	Main features of the scientific enterprise will be illustrated by examples in the study of physics, biology, and mind: the aims of scientific activities, the nature of scientific understanding and procedures, the structure and interpretation of scientific theories, and the development of science. 		

MET PH 300: History of Ancient Philosophy
	Classical Greek philosophy from the pre-Socratics through Plato and Aristotle.		

MET PH 310: History of Modern Philosophy
	Main currents of modern philosophical thought from Descartes through Kant.  		

MET PO 241: Introduction to Public Policy
	Undergraduate core course. Analysis of several issue areas: civil rights, school desegregation, welfare and social policy, education and urban housing, energy and the environment. Characteristics of policy systems in each issue area are analyzed to identify factors which may affect the content and implementation of public policies.		

MET PS 101: General Psychology
	Basic introduction to the study of psychology as a behavioral science. Emphasis on learning, motivation, perception, personality, and social psychology. 		

MET PS 221: Psychology of Human Sexuality
           			The course provides a psychological framework for reviewing the science of human sexuality. Emphasis is placed on not only what has been learned, but how it has been studied. The clinical, developmental, personality, social psychology, and neuropsychological theory and research of human sexuality are presented. Specific topics include sexual dysfunctions and sex therapy, bio-social views on sexual differentiation, alternative sexual orientations, and attraction to love.		

MET PS 234: Psychology of Learning
           			Theory and techniques in learning and their applications in different settings. Explores problem solving, memory, reward and punishment, and reinforcement schedules in animals, normal classrooms, and remediational settings. 		

MET PS 241: Developmental Psychology
           			Critical and technical review of theories on intellectual and social development of infants and children. Emphasis is on the role of early experiences and biological factors in the later formation of personality and intellectual motivational behaviors. Discusses the work of Erikson, Piaget, and Freud. 		

MET PS 251: Psychology of Personality
           			Provides a conceptual framework for understanding the development, organization, and change of the normal individual according to such diverse theoretical positions as the psychoanalytic, humanistic, and social learning schools. 		

MET PS 253: Psychology of Dreams
           			Covers a wide range of theoretical and empirical studies on dreams; presents a review of the major schools of thought regarding the origin, content, and purpose of dreams; topics include dream interpretation, the physiology of sleep and dreams, daydreams, and nightmares. Note: This course cannot be used as one of the principal courses required for the CAS psychology major or minor.		

MET PS 261: Social Psychology
           			Manner in which the behavior, feelings, and thoughts of one individual are influenced and determined by the behavior and/or characteristics of others. Attraction, attitudes, aggression, person perception, and groups. Readings cover theories, experimental research, and application. 		

MET PS 273: Introduction to Clinical Psychology
           			An overview of the field of clinical psychology as applied to children, adolescents, and adults.  Theoretical, applied, and research topics include: neurobiology, psychopharmacology, individual and group psychotherapy, testing and assessment, family systems therapy.  		

MET PS 275: Principles of Counseling and Motivational Interviewing
           			Basic theories of counseling and motivational interviewing are compared and contrasted. Emphasis is placed on investigating the various contexts in which these theories and techniques are particularly applicable (e.g. , sports psychology, weight loss, smoking cessation, crises management, etc.) 		

MET PS 295: Psychology and Film: Images of Madness
           			Classic feature films (1920's to the present) portraying mental illness are considered from both cinematic and psychosocial perspectives. The public image of madness on the big screen is related to clinical concepts and practices current during the period of the film.		

MET PS 320: Play and Art Therapy
           			Considers the psychological roots of play and creative processes as they relate to child and adult therapy. Specific schools of play and art therapy are considered. Emphasis is on psychological processes and direct application of therapies. Note: This course cannot be used as one of the principal courses required for the CAS psychology major or minor.		

MET PS 323: Experimental Psychology: Learning
           			Methodology, results, and interpretation of respondent and operant conditioning. Experimental analyses of selected topics in learning within the context of reinforcement theory. Students write reports of instructor- and student-planned experiments using the albino rat as subject. Laboratory course.		

MET PS 325: Experimental Psychology: Personality
           			Experimental and observational investigations of selected aspects of personality. Demonstration of experimental procedures; participation in laboratory and field studies. Laboratory course.		

MET PS 326: Exp Psy Social
			

MET PS 330: Leadership in the Workplace
           			This class is aimed at students who are eager to develop an understanding of the interplay between psychology, leadership, and workplace dynamics within organizations. The focus of the class is on the practical as well as the applied and theoretical aspects of organization psychology. Investigations will focus on actual work related case studies and leadership and work related issues, as well as an investigation of the dynamic nature of the field. We will use the classroom setting as a laboratory to analyze cases and to discuss solutions for work related problems.  This class is ideal for students preparing to enter the workplace. 		

MET PS 335: How the Brain Works: An Introduction to Neuropsychology
           			Where do our thoughts, feelings, and behaviors come from?  They all originate in the brain.  The  mysteries of the brain become accessible through the study of tragically commonplace medical events  and conditions such as stroke and dementia and exceptionally rare cases where n = 1 (the amnesic  patient H.M.; the infamous Phineas Gage).  Neuropsychology is the study of the relationship between  the brain and behavior.  This course examines the anatomical structures of the brain including the  cerebral lobes, brain stem and subcortical regions and will explore cognitive processes including  memory, language, attention, and emotion.  Significant emphasis will be placed on the relation  between brain disorders (resulting from head injury, stroke, degenerative disease, etc.) and abnormal  behavior. 		

MET PS 340: Business and Organizational Psychology
           			The discipline of business and organizational psychology is a fast-growing expert area in the behavioral  sciences. As a whole it concerns itself with the scientific application of psychological principles, research,  theories, methods, and interventions to the world of business and organizations. This course introduces  the undergraduate student to the discipline's theories, methods, and practical applications. 		

MET PS 350: Depression and Disorders of Mood
           			Examines current theories and research findings on depression and mania. Evaluation of major biological and psychosocial theories and treatments. Attention to personality, psychosocial risk factors, and depression in children. Note: This course cannot be used as one of the principal courses required for the CAS psychology major or minor. 		

MET PS 366: The Psychological Unconscious
           			The psychological unconscious has been cause for fascination since the dawn of civilization among   philosophers, scientist and artists. In recent years, thanks to swift advances in the neurosciences, many   unconscious phenomena have been studied experimentally and revealed to us. These empirical studies,   when combined with the theoretical work of previous generations, offer sharp insights into how the   psychological unconscious works in generating thoughts, beliefs, and behaviors.		

MET PS 371: Abnormal Psychology
           			Explores the complex causes, manifestations, and treatment of common behavior disorders. Introduces abnormal behavior in the context of psychological well being to show these behaviors along a continuum from functional to dysfunctional. Interviews with patients and analysis by therapists and other mental health professionals provide students with invaluable perspectives on the suffering of behavioral disorders as well as the multiple approaches to treatment.		

MET PS 401: Psychological Perspectives on Self and Identity
           			This course explores the manifold ways in which the sense of "who one is" as a person is approached and understood within the field of psychology. The psychological construct of identity will be utilized to survey the varying ways in which the experience and nature of "one's own sense of self" is examined and elucidated across the major sub-fields of psychology, including: developmental psychology; personality psychology, abnormal psychology, humanistic, existential and transpersonal psychology; and the psychology of religion. Particular consideration will be given to the significance of such cultural and contextual factors as race, ethnicity and gender. 		

MET PS 404: Senior Seminar in Psychology and Culture
           			This class addresses the key role culture plays in shaping the human experience. Emphasis will be put  on key social, affective, and cognitive aspects of group identity and self-identity development. The  historical role psychology has played in understanding these phenomena will be reviewed. Topics that  will be covered include: cross cultural communication and the constant evolution of prejudice and  racism in today's world. The course is taught in seminar format and requires intensive student  motivation and participation.		

MET PS 472: Psychology of Women
           			This course is designed to introduce undergraduate students to the myriad factors influencing the  development of girls and women in a variety of cultures and societies. Topics that will be covered include  feminist scholarship and research; gender socialization, women's biology, and health; sexuality,  relationships and family; and work, career, and power issues.  		

MET PS 497: Health Psychology
           			Health Psychology is the branch of psychological science that deals with identifying and understanding factors that help enhance human health and prevent disease.  Through education, research, and treatment, health psychologists intervene in a wide variety of clinical conditions, including addictions, chronic illnesses, cardiovascular diseases, pain management and many others.  		

MET PS 515: Introduction to Forensic Psychology: Methods, Practice, and Theory
           			The field of forensic psychology lies at the crossroads of psychology, the law, and the criminal justice  system. This course presents upper-level undergraduates and master's level graduate students with the  scope of forensic psychology practice and research. First, the course focuses on the scope of the field:  what forensic psychologists do, the ethical conflicts they encounter, and the field's special  methodology (e.g., assessment of malingering and deception). The use and function of expert witness  testimony is reviewed and critically evaluated. A range of civil and criminal psychological issues is  addressed including eyewitness memory, sexual offenders and battered women. 		

MET PS 592: Positive Psychology
           			Positive Psychology is the scientific study of what makes it possible for human beings to lead happy, meaningful and productive lives--sometimes despite  formidable odds. This course offers an introduction to the discipline's methods, empirical findings and theory.		

MET PY 105: Elementary Physics (N)
	Assumes a knowledge of algebra and trigonometry. Satisfies premedical requirements. Principles of classical and modern physics: mechanics, heat, light, electricity and magnetism, and atomic and nuclear physics. Fundamental concepts of energy; conservation laws, energy sources, and transformations. Lectures, discussions, and laboratory. 		

MET PY 106: Elementary Physics (N)
	Assumes a knowledge of algebra and trigonometry. Satisfies premedical requirements. Principles of classical and modern physics: mechanics, heat, light, electricity and magnetism, and atomic and nuclear physics. Fundamental concepts of energy; conservation laws, energy sources, and transformations. Lectures, discussions, and laboratory. 		

MET PY 211: General Physics (N)
           			For premedical students desiring a more analytical course than MET PY 105, PY 106, and for science concentrators who require a one-year physics course. Basic principles of physics, emphasizing topics from mechanics, thermal physics, electricity and magnetism, and optics. Lectures, discussions, and laboratory. 		

MET PY 212: General Physics (N)
           			For premedical students desiring a more analytical course than MET PY 105, PY 106, and for science concentrators who require a one-year physics course. Basic principles of physics, emphasizing topics from mechanics, thermal physics, electricity and magnetism, and optics. Lectures, discussions, and laboratory. 		

MET RN 100: Introduction to Religion
	Religion matters. It makes meaning and provides structure to life, addressing fundamental questions   about body, spirit, community, and time. But what is it? How does it work in our world? This course   explores religion in ritual, philosophical, experiential, and ethical dimensions.  Carries humanities divisional  credit in CAS.		

MET RN 103: Religions of the World: Eastern
	Study of Hinduism, Buddhism, Taoism, Confucianism, and Shinto. Focus on the world view of each tradition and the historical development of that world view.		

MET RN 104: World Religion West
MET RN 211: Chinese Religion
	A historical survey of Chinese religion that explores the diversity and unity of Chinese traditions. Covers ancient mythology, cosmology, shamanism; Confucianism and the traditional state cult, Taoist mysticism, and immortality; Buddhism and Chinese religious transformation.  		

MET RN 212: Christianity
	This course critically explores Christianity in its multifaceted fronts. Aiming to bring fresh perspectives and advance a deeper understanding of Christianity, the course will delve into the important questions on God, humanity and the world in Christian traditions.   Explore the problem of God, evil, and suffering; visualize God and spatialize sacred space in Christianity; explore images of women in Christianity and encounter women in Christianity beyond Maria and Eve; learn Christianities beyond the West and how Christianity is transformed when it meets indigenous cultures; explore interreligious dialogue and Christianity?s self understanding in relation to other religions.   In addition to the classical and contemporary texts by Christian thinkers, students will be encouraged to explore films or other forms of culture to enhance their understanding of Christianity. This course does not assume any personal or theoretical knowledge of Christianity.   		

MET RN 220: The Holy City: Jerusalem in Time, Space and Imagination
	Historical development of Jerusalem and its symbolic meanings in Jewish, Christian, and Islamic traditions, from the Bronze Age to the 21st century.		

MET SO 100: Principles of Sociology
	This course introduces students to the basic theories and concepts associated with the study of society.  Within this framework students will explore the following questions: Why are people poor? What are the  dynamics of group behavior? Has modern society lost its traditional values? Do men and women think  differently? What is environmental racism? What explains the achievement gap in American education?  These questions and more will be discussed and analyzed through a sociological lens. 		

MET SO 201: Sociological Methods
	Scientific method, measurement, experimentation, survey research, observational methods, projective techniques, and content analysis used in social science research. 		

MET SO 203: Sociological Theories
	An introduction to the major theoretical perspectives used in sociological inquiry and how they apply to contemporary social life. Special emphasis on nineteenth-century European theorists such as Marx, Weber, and Durkheim. 		

MET SO 204: Contemporary Social Problems
	Relationship between individual and society in the postindustrial world. Problems in areas of work, education, cities, inequality, sexism, medicine, and law. Broad coverage of concepts dealing with alienation, institutional malaise, and societal ills. 		

MET SO 205: Marriage and the Family
	The nature of the American family and its ethnic and class variants throughout the family life cycle. Topics include courtship, mate selection, sexual behavior, reproduction, marital stability and divorce, social policies affecting family life, and the interrelationships of the family with other institutions. 		

MET SO 207: Sociology of Minority Groups
	Relations among various racial, national, cultural, and religious groups, emphasizing the development of black-white relations in American society. Also covers the problems of contemporary minority peoples in America and other societies.		

MET SO 209: Crime and Delinquency
	Analysis of criminal and delinquent behavior. Evaluation of current theories and research into causes and sociological implications of these behavior patterns. Examination of criminal justice systems, including police, courts, and corrections. 		

MET SO 233: Sociology of Occupations, Professions, and the Workplace
	Analysis of occupations, professions, and their social setting in modern corporations, government offices, and non-profit organizations. An examination of the role of complex organizations in structuring the demand for certain types of workers and skills. An evaluation of how workers themselves alter their own work settings. 		

MET SO 301: Women of the Developing World
	This class analyzes Third World women's lives within the context of a political-economic world system. It examines the critical role of international economic relationships in shaping the structure of women's status in developing nations. Using this framework the class explores the following issues: fertility and family planning, militarization and human rights, the refugee experience, women's changing role in agriculture, and community development. Four geographical areas will be targeted for in-depth study: Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, and Africa. 		

MET SO 302: Women and Health in the Twenty-First Century
	Examines current issues directly related to the health experiences of women in America and around the world. Topics include an historical overview of women's health and examine in depth issues such as: gender specific medicine; puberty, body image and eating disorders; contraception and the abortion issue; infertility and technology; pregnancy, childbirth and breast feeding; violence against women; incarcerated women and the female brain. Provides a framework to integrate the social variables involved in exploring the roles played by men and women as medical consumers and its affects on overall health and attitudes.		

MET SO 305: Violence in the Family
MET SO 306: Sociology of Aging
	Sociological issues related to aging in the contemporary world. Life cycle issues of health, medicine, benefits, leisure, and social policy. Review of measures designed to improve conditions for elderly here and abroad. 		

MET SO 308: Individual and Society
	Examination of current theories and research bearing on relationship between personality and social structure; contributions and convergent developments in psychology, anthropology, and sociology. 		

MET SO 310: Business and the Social Environment
	The role of business in the world of politics, economics, and society. 		

MET SO 311: Religion and Society
	The interrelationships of religious and social structures: denominations and social institutions, secular and sacred cultures, group behavior, ideology, and religious beliefs. 		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET SO 325: Sociology of Sports
	Sociological theory and research techniques applied to sports. Emphasis on the study of sports in their social contexts as they reflect and reinforce economic, political, and cultural patterns of society. 		

MET SO 335: Technology, Environment, and Society
	Relationship between technology, environment, and social life. Impact of actual cases of technological development and environmental degradation. Emergence of social problems, and strategies for their solution. 		

MET SO 344: Drugs and Society
           			Introduction to the sociology of a wide range of legal and illicit drugs. Examines social definitions of drugs and conditions of their use. Considers deviant drug use and effects of social control on definitions and use.		

MET SO 510: Rehabilitation and Re-Integration
	Community re-integration following imprisonment has long been recognized as a significant problem.  Longer sentences and rapid changes have created new problems for both returning inmates and those  who provide services both inside and outside the criminal justice system. This course will examine  rehabilitation philosophy in theory and practice. Lectures and seminars will address such issues as: the  special problems in providing rehabilitation and education in the correctional system, the effect of  inmate subculture on rehabilitation, and balancing demands for custody and rehabilitation. 		

MET SO 511: Understanding Moral Panics
	Introduces students to the concept of Moral Panics. Moral panics are a social phenomenon  triggered by an incident or series of incidents that appear to threaten a society's culture or way of life.  Policymakers, legislators, and prosecutors react to these fears despite a trivial or non-existent threat. In  this course we analyze in detail five moral panics to advance our understanding of the theoretical  framework and the media's role in their construction.		

MET SO 533: Sociology of Medicine
		Research and substantive findings in the sociology and social psychology of health, disease, and medical practice; particular reference to institutional provision for health. 		

MET UA 301: Introduction to Urban Affairs
	This course takes an interdisciplinary approach to urban affairs and urban problems, including an overview of prominent theories about the nature and causes of urban problems. We will examine the metropolitan area as a complex system with interdependent institutions and problems and consider present as well as future urban policy options in areas such as housing, transportation, crime, education, environment and economic development. 		

MET UA 403: Boston Urban Seminar
	An opportunity to explore general issues of urban affairs and planning in seminar. Theme changes, but each seminar focuses on Boston. Prominent scholars and professionals active in city and regional issues are invited to participate. 		

MET UA 409: Urban Affairs Senior Project
	Required of undergraduate urban affairs majors. Students complete a senior project in their field of interest. Individual faculty supervision arranged by the department; project topic and approach arranged between student and advisor.		

MET UA 503: Housing and Community Development
	Surveys the factors affecting supply and price of urban housing. Examines federal, state, and municipal programs, as well as future policy options, from the standpoint of housing quality and community development goals. Analysis of selected international comparative experience. 		

MET UA 505: Urban Management
	Examination of selected cases in municipal and public management. Organization, financial management, personnel relations, program planning and budgeting, and issues of public and private sector relations. The administration of municipal functions, including health, police, schools, and housing. 		

MET UA 507: Law and Justice in the City
	Operation of the criminal justice system in the urban setting. Special attention is paid to the problems of safeguarding individual rights. Examines relationship between social and economic structure of cities and workings of the system of justice.		

MET UA 508: Real Estate Development
	Various factors affecting location, construction, financing, and marketing of real estate in metropolitan areas. Studies the relationship of public policy to the activities of the private sector, market analysis techniques, evaluation of development projects, and problems of real estate investment. 		

MET UA 509: Urban and Public Finance and Budgeting
	Economic, social, and political aspects of state and local government finances. Theory of public finance; revenues, expenditures, and survey of budgetary processes. Planning techniques in capital budgeting and other finance activities. Selected issues: debt, user fees, property taxes, and incentives. 		

MET UA 510: Selected Topics in Urban Affairs
	UA510 is the designation for "Special Topics in Planning". The subject matter for UA510 courses  changes from semester to semester, and more than one UA510 can be offered in a given semester. <br><br> Fall 2014 - MET UA510 B1 - "History of Metropolitan Boston" <br> This course provides an historical overview of Boston's metropolitan development, from the earliest country estates to suburban sprawl and the smart growth movement. The course is based upon the recent book The Hub's Metropolis: Greater Boston's Development from Railroad Suburbs to Smart Growth (The MIT Press, 2013). It provides historical context for understanding the region's contemporary planning efforts that are addressing the challenges of low-density sprawl, climate change, and the global information age economy. Affordable Housing Finance highlights how successful  developers integrate expertise in real estate development, public policy expertise, and political acumen  to produce high quality affordable housing and community revitalization. Key affordable housing  policies and tools are discussed, with a primary focus on financing and community development  strategies. The course addresses the issues of developing affordable housing and creative practices  used to breakdown regulatory and other barriers. Guests include affordable housing practitioners and  financiers to discuss process and challenges in the field. <br><br> Fall 2014 - MET UA510 C1 - "International Approaches to Urban Sustainability" <br> This course offers a comprehensive, yet critical understanding of the competing theories and practices of sustainable development as applied in cities. Topics include land use, transportation, brownfields redevelopment, community land trusts, green architecture, renewable energy, food systems, air and water pollution, and waste recycling. Furthermore, through a comparative study of sustainable practices in cities, students learn about the constraints and opportunities different cities confront. Looking at cities through a "sustainability" lens promotes understanding of multiple interrelated issues and the need for collaboration to achieve sustainability. The approach is interdisciplinary.		

MET UA 515: History and Theory of Urban Planning
	History, concepts, and methods of contemporary urban and regional planning practice. Governmental, nonprofit, and private settings of professional planning; plans, research, and policy development; uses and implementation of planning. Political analysis of planning issues, such as comprehensiveness, public interest, advocacy, negotiation, and future orientation. Case materials drawn from redevelopment, growth management, land use conflicts, and service delivery. 		

MET UA 521: Environmental Law
	Principles and status of environmental law for pollution control and environmental improvement. Impact statements, resource conservation and protection, growth management. Emphasis on air, water, land, and hazardous waste issues. Environmental, economic, and other policy relationships. Case materials and court decisions. 		

MET UA 546: Places of Memory: Historic Preservation Theory and Practice
	Covers key aspects of the history, theory, and practice of historic preservation. Preservation will be  discussed in the context of cultural history and the changing relationship between existing buildings  and landscapes and attitudes toward history, memory, invented tradition, and place.		

MET UA 550: Bike Planning and Advocacy
	This course will introduce students to the wide range of issues involved in building the infrastructure  and facilitating the culture change to make bicycling for fun, fitness, and, most especially, a serious  mode of transportation across the USA.  The course will be structured in four parts.  Part I will focus on  defining the problem and the opportunity.  Part II will cover strategies to support and encourage  bicycling.  Part III will discuss how to build both political and public support for bicycling.  Part IV will  allow students to synthesize the course concepts into a final bicycle planning or advocacy project. 		

MET UA 553: Documenting Historic Buildings and Landscapes
	Seminar in architectural and landscape recording techniques involving readings, fieldwork, and writing; projects include research on individual buildings as well as groups of resources. Emphasis on research design and evaluation of evidence.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET UA 560: City in the Media
	-		

MET UA 590: International Comparative Urbanization and Planning
	Examination of a selected country, region, or city in relation to issues of urbanization and development planning. Emphasis on comparative analysis of policy, techniques, conditions, issues, and effectiveness. Topics and international subjects vary. Consult the department for details. 		

MET UA 604: Urban Political Decision-Making: Citizen Participation in the Planning Process
	Case studies of political decision-making roles in urban conflict management and resource allocation. Community power distribution, factors influencing change, leadership styles, and relationships to administrators and planners. Selected policy issues, such as redevelopment, education, crime, and service delivery. 		

MET UA 611: Community Development
	Examination of community development challenges in several areas, including housing, economic development, community policing, and resident activism. Analysis of past and present strategies for strengthening communities through case studies, actual government and community programs, guest lectures, and related readings. 		

MET UA 613: Designing Urban Space
	The role of urban design in the community development process. Examines human behavior, aesthetic foundations of design methods, citizen/client participation, and public policy issues. Analysis of actual community spaces. Student design exercises. 		

MET UA 617: Living Systems Theory and Design
	The class takes an experiential approach to explore and answer the following questions: How can we  reconcile the interrelationship between perceived human needs and earth's living processes? Students  engage with the theory and practical implementation of current practices of 'sustainability' and living  systems thinking. The living processes of community are explored as a catalyst for healthy change,  design-based thinking, and on-the-ground implementation of holistic planning models. The course is  based on the experience and writings of leading living system theorists, authors, architects, planners,  developers, and landscape architects. By the end of the course, students' understanding will shift from  seeing the world as pieces in relationship to seeing it as inseparable 'wholes' of systems nested within  one another.		

MET UA 619: Urban Transportation Policy and Planning
	This course will provide students with a broad introduction to important concepts and policy issues in transportation, principally at an urban and metropolitan level.  In addition, the course will explore methods planning practitioners can use to analyze transportation problems and propose solutions. The course will use specific examples of planning initiatives (both operations and capital) from transportation agencies within the Boston Metropolitan region. Guest speakers from local, regional, and state transportation agencies within the Greater Boston Metropolitan area will supplement the instructor's lectures and assigned readings. 		

MET UA 620: Urban and Regional Land Use Policy and Planning
	Techniques of land use planning, including socioeconomic studies, market analysis and needs forecasting, mapping, environment and service impacts, and transportation/land use coordination. Policies for achieving land use objectives: planned unit development, zoning, development corporations, new towns, and land preservation. 		

MET UA 623: Regional and Metropolitan Development Planning
	Analysis of regional planning as applied to land use, economic development, infrastructure systems, and other topics. Cases and class projects selected from metropolitan and substate regions, including regional approaches and organizations, economic base, comparative advantage, and growth centers. 		

MET UA 629: Urbanization and the Environment
	Interrelationships between physical environment and processes of urbanization. Case studies develop historical perspective on social, economic, and physical aspects of the quality of urban life. Special attention to the preparation of environmental impact statements and assessment of urban environmental quality. 		

MET UA 654: Geographic Information Systems for Planners
	Geographic Information Systems for Planners provides an introduction to Geographic Information  Systems (GIS) specifically with a focus on applications in urban planning.   The role of spatial analysis in  local, state and regional planning has steadily increased over the last decade with the infusion of  windows-based GIS software such as ESRI ArcGIS. The class focus is to prepare students to feel  comfortable communicating with other GIS users, research spatial data, and produce high quality  digital maps in an applied learning environment.		

MET UA 655: Connected City
	-		

MET UA 657: Housing from an International Perspective
	-		

MET UA 662: Non-Profits and Land Use Planning
	Nonprofits and Land Use Development will explore the unique land use and economic development  issues linked to non-profit institutions. Particular attention is paid to the relationship between the tax  status and land use patterns of non-profits and their broader impact on social equity, labor markets  and community relations. Students will also learn more about the legal controls communities use to  regulate development and the important role of community planning and professional planners in the  development process. 		

MET UA 664: Planning and the Development Process
	This course specifically explores the area where the private and public  sectors meet so that the student  can develop an awareness of the complexity of dealing with these often competing interests. The objective  of the course is to give the student an understanding of the motivations of the private sector in the way  they go about creating their products and projects and to leave the student with the tools and knowledge  to successfully negotiate the Public Interest with the Private Needs. 		

MET UA 668: Post Disaster Planning
	-		

MET UA 672: Regionalism
           			Based on the premise that the old city-versus-suburb view is outdated and does not serve well the  planning and public policy objective of creating sustainable living environments, this seminar examines  the region as an organic economic and social entity as well as a legitimate planning and administrative  unit.  Students undertake an in-depth analysis of the issues, challenges and opportunities faced by  institutionally fragmented U.S. metropolitan regions while exploring the emerging metropolitanist  policy movement which embodies the belief that cities and their suburbs are related, rather than  antithetical, and make up a single place.		

MET UA 675: Urban Sustainability
	-		

MET UA 701: Urban Problems and Policy Responses
	Major problems confronting urban areas and the process of policy formulation and implementation. Emphasis on problem interdependence and systems characteristics. Analysis of problem definitions (housing, crime, poverty, etc.), goals, public/private responsibilities, existing programs, and policy options. Analysis of selected, comparative international experience. 		

MET UA 702: Urban Analytical Methods
	Use and analysis of quantitative data in public policy development and planning. Basic skills of organization and presentation of numerical information. Introduction to descriptive statistics, hypothesis testing, correlation, and regression; computer use. Math review. 		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
MET UA 703: Urban Research Methods
	Examines research techniques useful for urban policy research. Emphasis on survey research techniques, including sampling, survey organization, questionnaire development, and interviewing. Participant observation techniques. Field data collection and analysis. 		

MET UA 704: Urban Economic Issues and Analysis
	Basic economic concepts and techniques of analysis necessary for urban public policy development. Analysis of the economic bases of selected current urban problems and evaluation of several policy solutions to common urban problems.		

MET UA 715: Planning Law
	In this course we will read and analyze the important U.S. Supreme Court and state court decisions that  have shaped and continue to influence zoning, planning, and other land use controls throughout the  country. We will see the interaction between court decisions and land use controls and how each has  evolved to meet changing conditions and goals. We will also review the structure of the U.S. legal  system and how to brief court decisions and create a framework for understanding constitutional  requirements on eminent domain, due process, and equal protection from a planner's perspective. 		

MET UA 747: Building Conservation
	Theory and practicalities involved in conservation of historic buildings. This course will cover the history and theory of building conservation architectural investigations of building, including documentary, constructional, and finish materials to materials for conservation.		

MET UA 751: Urban Planning and Decision Theory
	The role and process of planning in terms of theory and historical development. Tradition of rational/comprehensive and incremental decision theory: roles and functions, organization, participation, political relationships, and time and information use. Relationships between planning, ideology, ethics, social change, and implementation. 		

MET UA 755: Colloquium in Preservation Planning
	A comprehensive preservation planning and advocacy course in which students in the Preservation Studies Program prepare a planning document under contract with a community.		

MET UA 759: Financing Historic Preservation
	This course will focus on how to determine the value and potential income of a property, produce a feasibility analysis, and secure financing for preservation projects.		

MET UA 761: Planning Thesis
		Topic must be approved by designated instructor or advisor. For M.C.P. students only. Application of program coursework and independent research to a selected topic individually arranged.		

MET UA 801: Graduate Directed Study in Urban Affairs and Planning
	Limited to a maximum of 8 credits toward the degree requirements. Approval by program director required prior to registration. Study of urban and public affairs and planning individually arranged between student and instructor to provide training opportunities not available elsewhere.		

MET UA 802: Graduate Directed Study in Urban Affairs and Planning
	Limited to a maximum of 8 credits toward the degree requirements. Approval by program director required prior to registration. Study of urban and public affairs and planning individually arranged between student and instructor to provide training opportunities not available elsewhere.		

MET UA 804: Supervised Fieldwork
	Limited to a maximum of four credits toward the degree requirements. Approval by program director required prior to registration. Students spend a minimum of 12 hours working with public agencies, community groups, or private organizations. Seminar participation. 		

MET UA 805: The Boston Urban Symposium
	The Boston based Urban Symposium will be a thematic Spring symposium, required for students in the Urban Affairs and City Planning programs. The class meetings will weave together the interdisciplinary nature of the urban planning and city planning professions. While the symposium topics will change each spring, professionals and industry leaders will be invited to lecture on their experiences, contemporary challenges to the professions, and major problems confronting the public and private sectors. Recognizing the unique and diverse characteristics of the Boston urban environment, the symposium themes will be drawn from topical issues that involve the greater Boston metropolitan area. The course features a combination of guest speakers and academic case studies that emphasize the interdisciplinary nature of urban planning. 		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
