
SHA HF 100: Introduction to the Hospitality Industry
	Serves as the prerequisite to all SHA courses. Students wishing to take any SHA courses must first complete SHA HF 100.  An introductory course designed to offer an overview of the hospitality industry. Students gain a historical perspective and track current events. The class discusses the structure of the industry including chains, franchising, ownership, and management. The course explores the inner workings of various components of lodging, food service, and entertainment organizations. It previews the important disciplines covered in upper-level classes. Actual industry examples and case studies are used extensively. This course is not offered to seniors.  4 credits, offered Fall & Spring.

SHA HF 103: Distinguished Hospitality Management Lecturers
	A series of guest lectures given by high-level industry executives who have distinguished themselves in the hospitality industry. You may take the course twice for credit. Pass/Fail grading. 2 credits, offered Spring Only.  

SHA HF 120: Fundamentals of Food Service Management
	A lab-based overview of food production. Emphasis is placed on food science, nutrition, and food management skills. Students practice food management techniques, proper use of tools and equipment, and the evaluation of food products. The concepts of managing from the front door and the back door are also discussed. Additional $150 for lab supplies. 2 credits, offered Fall & Spring.

SHA HF 140: Hospitality Field Experience I
	400 hours of supervised internship experience.  0 cr., either sem.

SHA HF 200: Hosp Mgmt Intro
	This course description is currently under construction.

SHA HF 210: Financial Accounting for the Hospitality Industry
	An introductory course in Accounting designed to provide students with a basic understanding of the language of business.  This course examines the basic accounting processes of recording, classifying, and summarizing business transactions.  It also provides an opportunity to study elements of financial statements such as assets, liabilities, equity, revenue, and expenses. 4 credits, offered Fall & Spring.

SHA HF 220: Food & Beverage Management
	This courses focuses on principal operating problems facing managers in the restaurant industry. Topics such as concept development and entrepreneurship, menu analysis, cost control, operational analysis, and customer service processes are addressed. 4 credits, offered Fall & Spring.

SHA HF 231: Human Resources Management for the Hospitality Industry
	Explores contemporary human resource management relative to the hospitality industry, with emphasis on planning, job analysis, recruitment, selection, hiring, placement, and ethnic diversity in the workplace. Specifically, the course concentrates on employee motivation, leadership, training, team building, employee performance and retention. Management philosophies of work compensation, discipline, and labor relations are discussed as they affect current hospitality industry strategies to attract and retain a quality workforce. 4 credits, offered Fall & Spring.

SHA HF 240: Hospitality Field Experience II
	400 hours of supervised internship experience.  0 credits, Offered Fall & Spring.

SHA HF 250: Hospitality Law
	A look at the laws that apply to hotels, food-service establishments, and the travel industry. Consideration of innkeepers' duties to guests.  Concepts of liability and negligence, contract and property practices, and miscellaneous statutes applicable to the hospitality industry. 2 credits, offered Fall & Spring.

SHA HF 260: Hospitality Marketing Principles
	This course provides an understanding of the role and function of marketing in the hospitality industry. It offers an overview of generic principles of marketing for any industry (including consumer products and manufacturing) and introduces specialized principles for the hospitality industry. For all topics, it uses examples taken primarily from the hospitality industry. Subjects covered include marketing strategy, marketing research, consumer behavior, segmentation, positioning, product and concept development, pricing, distribution, and marketing communications (including advertising and public relations). Class discussion, lectures, and case studies. 4 credits, offered Fall & Spring.  

SHA HF 270: Lodging Operations and Technology
	This course provides an introduction to the operations and technology of the room division within hotel properties.  Explores theoretical principles and operational tactics for management of front office, reservations,housekeeping and engineering functions.  4 credits, offered Fall & Spring.

SHA HF 295: Private Club Management
	Provide students with an introduction to the hospitality management specialization of Club Management.  Lecture topics will include:  what clubs are, organizational structure of clubs, service in the club environment, profit or non-profit, and professionals in club management.  There will also be guest speakers, classroom case studies and field trips.  2 cr., spring semester

SHA HF 307: Hospitality Entrepreneurship
	This course is intended to be a capstone experience for students seeking to understand hospitality entrepreneurship and innovation as a professional business system.  Student teams will create, develop and design a concise Pro Forma Business Plan for a start-up non-profit or profit-driven hospitality enterprise.  At the end of the semester teams will make a competitive presentation integrating the principles and skills mastered in previous coursework to a panel of successful hospitality entrepreneurs. 4 credits.

SHA HF 310: Managerial Accounting for the Hospitality Industry
	After a review of financial-accounting principles, this course examines how financial information is assembled and presented according to the Uniform Systems Accounts for hospitality enterprises. The primary emphasis of the course is on analytical and decision-making uses of financial information, including such topics as cost behavior, leverage, cost-volume-profit analysis, contribution-margin pricing, and budgeting. The course concludes with a review of hotel operating forms, including franchising and management contracts and assessing their impact on financial performance and risk. 4 credits, offered Fall & Spring.

SHA HF 321: Advanced Food and Beverage Management
	This intermediate-level course is designed to complete a student's foundation in food and beverage management. Critical issues in the food service industry are explored in depth. Course content will vary. Analysis of daily operations with a focus on developing viable solutions to problems is emphasized. The course content is grouped into six thematic competency clusters. 4 credits.

SHA HF 322: Hospitality Facilities Design
	This course is designed to introduce students to the basic principles of facility planning, layout and design for hotel, dining, kitchen, public and service areas. At the completion of the course, students will be able to explain the design process common to all hospitality facilities, as well as the activities that occur during each phase of this process. 4 credits. 

SHA HF 329: Intro to Fine Wines
	This course offers a complete, introductory-level overview of the fine wines of the world.  The purpose of the course is fourfold: 1.  Ensure a thorough knowledge of the world's major wine-producing regions, their noble grape varietals, their classification systems and quality control laws. 2.  Build basic understanding of the wine-making process, its variations and its pitfalls, thus aiding in the ability to appreciate a great wine and spot a flawed one. 3.  Illustrate techniques of quantified sensorial assessment of wine so that the student may perform the buying function knowledgeably and confidently. 4.  Acquire an understanding of how to perform job functions related to wine, such as writing a wine list, in the hospitality industry. 2 credits, offered Fall & Spring.

SHA HF 332: Professional Development for the Hospitality Industry
	This course provides an introduction to the management of others with an emphasis on the hospitality industry.  Using relevant articles and real life examples, it will provide a thorough look at what it means to be responsible for the performance of others. Topics covered will include exploring different management styles, performance management, directing and coaching others, and the effective training of staff.  2 credits.      

SHA HF 350: Tourism and Hospitality Industries in China
	This course is designed to introduce tourism and hospitality industries in China. This spring only course provides a unique opportunity to learn about China -- the emerging superpower and gain new perspective on travel and lodging operations. The course requires a field trip to China during the spring break. Students are responsible for additional fees for the trip. Class is open for all SHA sophomores, juniors, seniors, and SHA minors through an application and evaluation process. Contact Dr. Zoe Ho at zoejyho@bu.edu for application information. 4 credits, offered Spring Only.
SHA HF 354: Ethical Dilemmas in Hospitality Administration
           			Examines the competing social and ethical values managers use to make decisions. Includes analysis of the classical ethical theories, the moral stages of development, and the socialization process to corporate values. Discusses macro public policy issues such as privacy and discrimination, and micro compliance issues such as honesty in communications and record keeping, and conflict of interest. 4 credits, offered Fall Only.		

SHA HF 360: Hospitality Sales Management
           			Introduction to the practical application of the sales process, including the selling process, identifying prospects, working with distribution channels, creativity in sales, and how to manage a sales department. 2 credits.		

SHA HF 362: Destination Marketing
           			Analysis of the operations and functions of convention bureaus and tourism boards and their relationship to the hotel and restaurant industry.  Topics include the funding and managing of convention bureaus and the marketing programs utilized by destination promotion organizations.  2 credits.		

SHA HF 363: Tourism Management
           			Discuss professional techniques and practices of foreign and domestic tourism, travel delivery systems, and tourism destination developments. 4 credits.		

SHA HF 370: Revenue Management and Technology
           			This course provides an advanced overview of the revenue management function in hotels. Revenue management is an integrated approach to maximizing revenue that includes capacity analysis, demand forecasting, variable pricing, and distribution technology. 2 credits, offered Fall & Spring.		

SHA HF 375: Meetings & Conventions
           			This course provides an introduction to the methods and techniques utilized in planning, organizing, promoting and delivering of businesses and social events, and the role events play in generating a tourist and business market. Information will be presented that will allow the student to gain general knowledge of planning events. 4 credits, offered Fall & Spring. 		

SHA HF 382: Hospitality Communications Practicum
           			This course is intended as a 'practicum' in hospitality communications.  This course is open to sophomores, juniors and seniors.  This is a seven (7) week course offered in the first half and second half of the semester.  The focus is on the development of those communication skills that are critical to being effective managers.  There will be readings on communication, but the majority of the course will focus on skills development.  Each week students will be required to deliver presentations to the class.  These presentations will be videotaped and critiqued.  By the end of this course students will be much more comfortable, clear, and confident speakers in any situation. Fail/Pass.  2 credits, offered Fall and Spring.		

SHA HF 403: Seminar with Distinguised Hospitality Speakers
           			This course is designed to give a limited number of seniors (or others with special permission) who are enrolled in the HF 103 Distinguished Hospitality Speaker Series, an opportunity to meet with those speakers in an informal seminar setting.  Students will be expected to write several papers about the topics covered by the speakers as the basis for their course grades. Sprg sem. 2 credits		

SHA HF 410: Finance for the Hospitality Industry
           			Studies the techniques financial managers and external analysts employ to value the firm and its assets. Topics include financial statement analysis, taxation, discounted cash flow, stock and bond valuation, cost of capital, and capital budgeting. The techniques of discounted cash flow and the command of taxation principles developed in the course are applied to commercial real estate analysis, including hospitality properties. 4 credits, offered Fall & Spring.		

SHA HF 415: Hospitality Asset Management
           			This course is designed to introduce the student to a rapidly growing area of the lodging industry, namely, asset management.  The course will define what asset management is today and examine the skills required to be a successful asset manager.  There will be a special focus on the benefits to the hotel owner of hiring an asset manager and the role of the asset manager in representing the owner in deliberations about annual operating budgets and capital plans with the hotel management company.  Finally, the course will examine what kinds of job opportunities are available in industry to those who desire to become asset managers. 2 credits.		

SHA HF 416: Hospitality Franchising
           			This course deals with both the legal and practical applications of franchise systems including the start-up, development, operation and management of franchises from the perspective of both the franchisor and the franchisee.  Particular emphasis will be placed on the franchisor-franchisee relationship.  The course will focus on both the restaurant and hotel industries. 2 credits.		

SHA HF 417: Hotel Management Agreements & Negotiation
           			This course deals with both the legal and practical application, negotiation, and implementation of hotel (and to a lesser extent, restaurant) management agreements from the perspective of the owner and the operator.  Particular emphasis will be placed on the negotiation of a hotel management agreement. 2 credits.		

SHA HF 422: Food Laboratory Modules: Seafood Cookery
           			Hands-on course focuses on preparation of a wide variety of seafood species as well as various cooking techniques.  1 credit, offered Spring Only.  		

SHA HF 423: Food Laboratory Modules: Contemporary Nutrition Cookery
           			Hands-on course focuses on nutritional preparations and modern presentations of regional American cuisine. 1 credit, offered Spring Only.		

SHA HF 424: Food Laboratory Modules: Pastries
           			Hands-on course features the preparation of many different categories of fine desserts, pastries, and petit fours. 1 credit, offered Fall Only.		

SHA HF 430: Advanced Wine Study
           			Students must be 21 to take this course.  This course offers a thorough study of wine tasting, wine and food pairing and wine and food event planning.  Each class features a blind tasting of selected wines along with discussion on the principles of critical tasting and wine and food pairing.  The objectives of the course are to fully prepare those entering the hospitality industry to purchase wines and to recommend them to customers with various types of food. 2 credits, offered Fall & Spring.		

SHA HF 432: Hospitality Leadership
           			This course will focus on leadership and management for the hospitality industry. Using a leadership continuum as a framework, we will explore several different levels of leadership, from a "traditional" leadership role as the head of a major corporation to the more personal aspect of self-leadership.  Several different leadership models will be analyzed and applied to the hospitality industry.  Leadership tools will be explored - hands-on, realistic tools that you will be able to use in your personal lives, while in school and in the business world upon graduation.  Seniors only. 4 credits, offered Fall & Spring.		

SHA HF 440: International Experience
           			This requirement can be fulfilled by living or working in a foreign country for ten weeks or exploring through coursework the language and culture of another country. Students may also propose an independent study to fulfill this requirement. 0 credits, offered Fall & Spring.		

SHA HF 460: Hospitality Strategic Marketing
           			In this course, students work with local hotel or restaurant sales and marketing groups to develop their strategies, plans and programs for targeted market segments.  Class studies and exercises are used to help develop the skills needed by the students to accomplish this.  Industry speakers bring the current market reality into the classroom.  Seniors only. 4 credits, offered Fall & Spring.		

SHA HF 532: Hospitality Leadership
		This course will focus on leadership and management for the hospitality industry. Using a leadership continuum as a framework, we will explore several different levels of leadership, from a "traditional" leadership role as the head of a major corporation to the more personal aspect of self-leadership.  Several different leadership models will be analyzed and applied to the hospitality industry.  Leadership tools will be explored - hands-on, realistic tools that you will be able to use in your personal lives, while in school and in the business world upon graduation.  A special paper about leadership in the hospitality industry will also be required.  Seniors only. 4 credits, offered Fall & Spring		

SHA HF 560: Hospitality Strategic Marketing
		In this course, students work with local hotel or restaurant sales and marketing groups to develop their strategies, plans and programs for targeted market segments.  Class studies and exercises are used to help develop the skills needed by the students to accomplish this.  A special paper about branding in the hospitality industry will also be required.  Industry speakers bring the current market reality into the classroom.  Seniors only. 4 credits, offered Fall & Spring.		

