SSW IS 104: Intgrtve Sem 4
			

SSW IS 105: Intgrtve Sem 5
			

SSW IS 106: Intgrtve Sem 6
			

SSW IS 107: Intgrtve Sem 7
			

SSW IS 108: Intgrtve Sem 8
			

SSW MP 759: Communities and Organizations: Analysis and Intervention
		This course familiarizes the student with basic concepts and strategies related to large system, or macro, practice. The primary focus is on community and agency analysis, along with methods of achieving change within those settings. Students acquire a basic framework for problem solving and an understanding of the opportunities and limits in the role of change agent. 		

SSW MP 773: Human Services Management
		This is an advanced methods course in social administration/management covering topics in planning, supervision, performance appraisal, budgeting, and organizational theory. It is an ideal course for both clinical and macro students who want to develop management skills that they can use in their professional practices. The course examines the ethical dilemmas of administering social programs  and managing human service agencies in the context of a market economy where federal and state budget cuts have created competition for scarce resources. Students are introduced to basic management theories, organizational structure, supervision, performance appraisal, leadership, and conflict resolution. This is a prerequisite to all subsequent courses in the Human Services Management Program.		

SSW MP 774: Seminar: Community Planning
		This course examines a variety of themes regarding program development at a community level. Opportunities for public speaking are emphasized. Topics vary according to student interest.		

SSW MP 775: Strategic Management
		This course integrates the knowledge, skills, and attitudes learned in the preceding management courses and field experiences. It focuses on the general manager's role in organizational change. Topics include the impacts of changing federal, state, and local public policies on the nonprofit sector, and the strategic planning and implementation skills needed to bring about long-term change at the agency level. Using the case study method, the course examines significant current issues and emerging themes in social administration. Actual strategic plans are prepared. 		

SSW MP 776: Financial Management in Human Service Organizations
		This course provides an in-depth examination of management control systems, including fund accounting, operating, and cash budgets; line-item, program, and zero-base budgeting; cost accounting; and account structures. Students develop an understanding of financial statements, cash flow analysis, cost/benefit analysis, and break-even analysis. 		

SSW MP 778: Directed Study
	Directed Study. Approval of instructor needed.		

SSW MP 781: Community Organizing
		This course includes three interrelated modules. It begins with an examination of community organizing principles, empowerment theory, and the role of staff as a facilitator of individual and collective empowerment. The course next considers methods and skills for building and developing effective organizations in undervalued communities. Organizing models, outreach and recruitment, leadership development, creating participatory structures, and establishing democratic decision-making processes are examined. Finally, students focus on conducting social change campaigns, with an emphasis on issue selection, action research, strategic analysis, implementation of action plans, utilization of tactics, and assessment of outcomes. 		

SSW MP 783: Planning and Program Development
		This course introduces students to planning theory, planned social change, organizational development, program development, proposal writing, and leadership. Specific emphasis is placed on basic concepts, principles, skills, and knowledge necessary to effect change at the organizational and community levels. 		

SSW MP 785: Program Evaluation
		The aim of this course is to provide advanced MSW students with the theory and basic skills necessary to develop sound program evaluation models. It presents techniques for creating evaluation designs that respond both to a program's     organizational reality and to funding requirements. The course also includes a discussion of the political-policy context of program evaluation. Finally, students are provided with the opportunity to either participate in an ongoing evaluation effort or implement their own evaluation model in the field.		

SSW MP 794: Macro Field Seminar
	A required monthly seminar in support of field placements for non-MSW-supervised, second-year macro students. There are  no readings or assignments.		

SSW MP 795: Applied Macro Skills, Groups and Systems
		This course focuses on the development and staffing of various types of task groups in a range of settings. The course covers theory, knowledge, and skills related to task group development; leadership models; decision making; conflict resolution; coalition building; lobbying and influencing legislation; press and media relations; conducting effective meetings; staffing governance boards; resolving common group problems; and working with multicultural groups. It draws heavily from students' learning experiences in their current field placements (as well as employed positions, where applicable) and is conducted as an interactive seminar. 		

SSW MP 900: Directed Study
	Directed Study. Approval of instructor needed.		

SSW MP 901: Directed Study
