SSW CP 900: Directed Study
	Directed Study. Approval of instructor needed.		

SSW CP 901: Directed Study
	Directed Study. Approval of instructor needed.		

SSW ET 753: Ethics and the Social Work Profession
	This required seminar is intended to inspire the moral imagination of social    work students, and prepare them for competent and compassionate ethical practice    as professionals. Ethics and the Social Work Profession (ET 753), examines the    issues of social work professionalism, the process of becoming a social work    professional, the tensions inherent in the goals of social work, and the ways    these interrelate to produce conflicts of values and ethics in social work    practice. The course focuses on acquiring and practicing the skills of ethical    decision-making, including values clarification, application of ethical theory,    utilization of codes of ethics, and models of ethical analysis. Both clinical    and macro aspects of social work are explored, with an emphasis on the    contemporary challenges of practice in multicultural and urban settings. Issues    of self-care, impairment, licensure, malpractice, whistle-blowing and other    professional challenges are explored. The course is set in the advanced    curriculum as an integrative capstone, designed to be concurrent with the    student's final semester in the MSW program.             		

SSW FE 791: Directed Study
	Directed Study. Approval of instructor needed.		

SSW FE 795: Directed Study
	Directed Study. Approval of instructor needed.		

SSW FE 800: Integrative Field Seminar
		The focus of this seminar is professional development and the role of the social work intern in the agency. The seminar meets several times each semester. Instructor sets schedule. Attendance is required.		

SSW FE 801: Field Education I
	Required of all students in their first semester of the first (foundation) field placement. Also required to be registered for a methods course.		

SSW FE 802: Field Education  II
	Required of all students in their second semester of the first (foundation) field placement. Also required to be registered for a methods course.		

SSW FE 803: Field Education III
	Required of all students in their first semester of the standard second (advanced) field placement. Also required to be registered for a methods course.		

SSW FE 804: Field Education IV
	Required of all students in their second semester of the standard second (advanced field placement). Also required to be registered for a methods course. 		

SSW FE 805: Advanced Field Placement: Non-Standard 1
	First semester of non-standard advanced placement (i.e. 12 month or modified block)		

SSW FE 806: Advanced Field Placement: Non-Standard 2
	Second semester of non-standard advanced placement (i.e. 12 month or modified block)		

SSW FE 807: Advanced Field Placement: Non-Standard 3
	Third semester of non-standard advanced placement (i.e. 12 month or modified block)		

SSW FE 818: Field Ed 818
			

SSW FE 819: Field Ed 819
			

SSW FE 820: Field Ed 820
			

SSW FE 821: Field Ed 821
			

SSW FE 822: Field Ed 822
			

SSW FE 823: Field 4/2 Jan-Jan
			

SSW FE 824: Field Ed 824
			

