MET AD 752: International Commerce: South America
	Analysis of the countries of South America and the trading relationships between them as well as the region's trade with other nations. Course provides an evaluation of the impact of the region's governments, economic systems, and labor on business activities. 		

MET AD 753: International Commerce: Pacific Basin and East Asia
	The fast-growing, newly industrialized economies of Asia are posting some of the world's highest growth rates. What does that mean for global management strategies? The cultural, economic, and political aspects of Japan's success are examined. 		

MET AD 754: International Commerce: Middle East
	Explores the geopolitical environment of the Middle East and its interaction with business.  This course integrates the cultural impact on trade via governments, economic systems, and local labor. 4cr.		

MET AD 756: Economics for Business
	Considers macroeconomic factors of relevance to the firm: aggregate economic activity, cyclical movements, and fiscal and monetary policies. Applies economic principles to the solution of problems in organizations using optimization procedures. Considers problems of decision making relating to demand, production, costs, market structure, and price. 		

MET AD 757: International Business Law
	Provides the student with an understanding of different legal systems as they relate to international business transactions. The seminar builds the analytical skills required to evaluate legal processes, law, and legislation-related events in international business dealings. 		

MET AD 758: Eco-Tourism
	The course examines the emerging area of eco-tourism in both developing and developed nations.  The issues discussed involve the purpose of eco-tourism, importance to GDP, infrastructure demands, return on investment, and the possible financial strains and returns to local areas.  The course provides a thorough examination of potential benefits as well as liabilities of eco-tourism to the region, indigenous population, and nation as well as who can gain and who can lose from such undertakings.		

MET AD 760: Going International: Importing and Exporting Operations
	Techniques and procedures for conducting international trade. The course focus is practical. Topics include operations, government agencies and import/export channel networks, and the evaluation of international opportunities. Designed to provide students with the skills and tools necessary for international trade. 		

MET AD 761: Comparative Economic, Industrial, and Governmental Environments
	Analysis of the interplay between governments, economic systems, labor, and multinational corporations (MNCs). Topics include the basis for the existence, organization, and growth of MNCs; a comparison of major economic and government systems: areas include the impact of the MNC on trade, taxation, regulation, and legal environments; as well as labor influences. 		

MET AD 763: Multinational Finance and Trade
		Applies the concepts of corporate finance to the problems of multinational financial management. Major topics include private and public institutions, foreign exchange rates, capital flows, speculation, analysis of alternative foreign investments, analysis of sources and uses of corporate funds abroad, multinational tax and profit planning, international risk analysis, and capital budgeting. 		

MET AD 764: Multinational Tactics, Strategy, and Positioning
		Introduces the student to the contemporary word of international business through an examination of the social, cultural, economic, ecological and commercial aspects that impact global operations. Emphasis is on both the thorough understanding of the effect that international business has on the different functional aspects of the enterprise as well as the manner in which firms organize, operate and formulate strategies in order to maximize their chances of successful operations.		

MET AD 765: Management in a Changing Environment
	The relationship between organizations and the larger social environment. Focuses on means for monitoring, analyzing, and interpreting the social environment; the effects of public policy on organizations; the development of management skills to anticipate and respond to social changes. 		

MET AD 767: Culture and Development
	Today the tourist industry is global in respect to the tourists wishes and destinations, i.e., tourists travel to other countries in part to learn about their peoples and cultures. To meet this large and expanding market many tourist companies have become either multinational or have formed working alliances with companies in other countries. This necessitates the need of people working in the tourist industry to have an understanding of cultures beyond their own. In this course we will examine different cultures and see how culture has affected economic, social, political and artistic development and its relationship to multi-national commerce and the tourist industry. Among the cultures to be examined will be: Western Europe, America, Middle East, and Sub-Saharan Africa.		

MET AD 769: Cultural Tourism and the Art and Festival Industries
	Festivals and events are found in all societies.  They are increasingly seen as unique tourist attractions and as destination image makers.  Ranging from mega events such as the Olympics to small community festivals, they constitute one of the most exciting and fastest growing forms of sustainable cultural tourism.  In this course students will learn how to plan, develop, and market festivals and events as tourism attractions.  4cr.		

MET AD 773: International Business Simulation
	Through the use of an international business simulation, students develop the ability to manage in the shifting international environment by integrating finance, strategy, and marketing skills to expand their company globally. By selling, exporting, or manufacturing in up to fourteen countries the simulation is intended to provide the student with a "real life" approach to international expansion, environmental stability, inflation and currency issues, financial operations as well as international sales and manufacturing issues. The objective of the course is to offer an overview of the factors affecting global business operations in a stimulating learning environment that is enjoyable and challenging. Intensive course.		

MET AD 775: Corporate Communications And Investor Relations
	The communications role of investor relations and corporate communications is discussed as it relates to all aspects of the company. The role of communications, channels of information, stakeholders, and legal/regulatory frameworks concerning information are the central themes of the course. 		

MET AD 780: Ethics in Management
	Those in leadership and managerial positions are often confronted with difficult decisions that have  far-reaching implications and the ability to balance competing social and ethical values.  This  practical course explores different ways of approaching challenging ethical dilemmas through  theories, cases, contemporary issues, and exercises -- and in the context of various cultures and  business and organizational settings.  4 cr.		

MET AD 783: International Investments
           			Topics include the concepts of investment and portfolio management applied to the complex multinational and multicurrency environment; analysis of international money, capital markets and foreign exchange markets, as well as foreign company evaluation. Students are exposed to the concepts and techniques of risk management, global equity investing, and the world's major stock markets.		

MET AD 790: Data and Transaction Security
           			Develops knowledge and skills for both Electronic Commerce Payment Mechanisms and Data Transactions Security of information and information systems within organizations. Payment options for electronic  commerce such as E-Cash, SET, credit cards, systems design, and methods of dealing with risks are covered. Other topics include: designing, implementing, managing, and auditing security at all levels; techniques for assessing risk associated with accidental and international breaches of security; ethical uses of information and privacy consideration, encryption, and digital certificates. 		

MET AD 800: Master's Thesis
		An extensive research project culminating in a written paper and oral defense. Research is conducted under intensive faculty supervision. Requires department approval and thesis supervisor from full-time faculty. May be credited toward concentration elective.		

MET AD 801: Master's Thesis
		The second course of an extensive research project culminating in a written paper and oral defense. Research is conducted under intensive faculty supervision. Requires department approval and thesis supervisor from full-time faculty. Considered a free elective.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
