MET AD 613: Enterprise Risk Planning and Compliance
	Students are exposed to the important issues relating to corporate and organizational security and  risk from both the perspective of systems designed to protect against disasters and aspects of  emergency preparedness should systems fail. Security areas of study include information  technology, terrorism, and other organization disruptions. Students study proactive risk  assessment through management risk analysis techniques and simulations. Students will be able  to design a company or agency global assurance plan, organize the strategy to make the plan  operational, and implement control measures to assess the plan's degree of success. The course  also provides explanations of legal/regulatory, auditing, and industry-specific requirements  related to compliance, control, and reporting issue sin business risk management. The role of  establishing and maintaining standards by local, national, and international agencies is discussed,  as is the importance of these agencies in certifying operations. 4 credits		

MET AD 614: Disaster Management
	This course takes concepts covered in MET 610 and MET 613 and applies them in more detail  mainly to the corporate-private sector environment. During this course, we will first review the  organization and processes necessary to effectively respond to and manage incidents, including  the transition from emergency response and incident management to business recovery. Finally,  the course will focus on disaster recovery, with an emphasis on technology recovery, an absolutely  essential but sometimes overlooked component of any successful corporate recovery program. 4  credits		

MET AD 615: Introductory Macroeconomic Analysis
	Includes national economic performance; problems of recession, unemployment inflation, and trade and budget deficits; money creation, government spending, and taxation; economic policies for full employment and price stability; and international trade and payments. 		

MET AD 616: Enterprise Risk Analytics
	Introduces students to the data analytical approaches used by business organizations to manage  their exposure to risk. Addresses three major data analytical pillars of risk management; 1.  financial analyses, which offer an overview of actuarial analysis used by the insurance  marketplace and the value-at-risk (VaR) methodology used by banks and other financial  intermediaries; 2. catastrophe modeling, commonly used in business continuity planning to  prepare for major emergencies; and 3. causal analyses, used by a wide spectrum of business  entities to risk-adjust their decisions.  Students will learn not just how the traditional and  emerging data analytical / information producing tools support the goal of minimizing the cost of  risk, but also the students will learn how those informational assets can be used to enhance the  organization's competitiveness.   		

MET AD 620: Environmental Law, Regulation &amp; Sustainability
	This course provides a framework to study the global environmental problems and the direct impact on government, business, and non-governmental organizations in seeking sustainability. Students will be seeking resolution of major environmental concerns related to a vital balance between economic needs and environmental protection domestically and on a global perspective. Students will examine global concerns of climate change, ozone destruction, disposal of solid &amp; hazardous waste and 20 major global environmental issues. 4 credits 		

MET AD 630: Financial and Managerial Accounting
	Introduction to the concepts, methods, and problems of financial and managerial accounting. Includes data accumulation, accounting principles, financial statement analysis, measurement and disclosure issues, cost analysis, budgeting and control, production costs, and standard costs. 		

MET AD 632: Financial Concepts
	Introduction to the concepts, methods and problems of accounting and financial analysis.  Includes accounting principles, measurement and disclosure issues, financial statement analysis, time value of money, cash flow projection and analysis, capital budgeting and project evaluation, bond and equity valuation, cost of capital and capital structure.  4 cr. 		

MET AD 642: Project Management
	The course examines the concepts and applied techniques for cost effective management of both long-term development programs and projects. Project management principles and methodology are provided with special focus on planning, controlling, and coordinating individual and group efforts. Key topics of focus include overview of modern project management, organization strategy and project selection, defining a project and developing a project plan and scheduling resources, project risk analysis, work breakdown structures, and project networks. MS Project will be introduced in this course to provide hands-on practical skills with the above topics. Mastery of key tools and concepts introduced in this course provides a significant competitive advantage in the marketplace. 		

MET AD 643: Project Communications Management
	To succeed in project management, you must be a strong leader and an effective communicator. This course examines the current philosophies of leadership as applied to project management and identifies various styles of communication and conflict resolution. Through case studies and various exercises, you will develop enhanced leadership, communication, conflict management, and negotiation skills. 		

MET AD 644: Project Risk and Cost Management
	This course introduces the art and science of project risk as well as continuity management and cost management. Managing the risk of a project as it relates to a three-part systematic process of identifying, analyzing, and responding is examined through actual case studies. Students learn how to manage the components of a project to assure it can be completed through both general and severe business disruptions on local, national, and international levels. Students learn the process of cost management, early cost estimation, detailed cost estimation, and cost control using earned value method. Students study in depth the issues of project procurement management and the different types of contracts for various scope scenarios.		

MET AD 646: Program Management
	Programs and projects deliver benefits to organizations by enhancing current capabilities or developing new capabilities for the organization to use. This course will provide a detailed understanding of program management and will present concepts that promote efficient and effective communication and coordination among various groups. Students will understand PMI® program management processes and use tools that automate and enforce processes for managing scope changes, risk, quality, issues, schedules, resources, releases, and costs. You will learn how to design a program and manage program costs, risk, and communication within the context of Project Portfolios. This course is targeted to senior executives, portfolio managers, program managers and their team members, members of a PMO, customers/stakeholders, educators, and consultants. This course introduces processes and knowledge areas from three new PMI standards: Program Management standard, OPM3, and Portfolio Management.     		

MET AD 647: Project and Program Governance
	This is a comprehensive course on project and program monitoring, evaluation, and governance.  Students will also understand enterprise wide-project interdependencies and determine the  optimal pacing for a program to enable appropriate planning, scheduling, executing, monitoring,  and controlling of the projects within a program in the future. It covers governance and evaluation  methods that will be useful at various levels of large projects, including government and nonprofit  organizations. This course will help project and program managers, analysts, consultants,  educators, and managers in government, nonprofit, and private institutions to assess program  results and identify ways to improve program performance. Other topics include:  evaluation for  small nonprofit organizations; assessing and improving planning, implementation and  effectiveness; governance methodology and models; using evaluation tools and applications to  assess factors linking projects under one program and provide the best allotment of resources  between those projects; monitor complex, multi-project programs, and drill into current project  details; enable collaboration and stakeholder alignment throughout a project life-cycle. Other  topics include: creating a transparent and accountable organization with well-defined roles and  one that is based on transparency, resource allocation and decision making and enterprise project  management.		

MET AD 648: Ecommerce
	Provides a detailed examination of how businesses can successfully use Internet and Web    technology. Students are introduced to the concepts and issues of electronic commerce. Topics    include comparison of e-commerce procedures, payment mechanisms, applications in different    industry sectors, security, the challenges of starting and maintaining an electronic business site, as    well as a comparison with traditional business practices. 		

MET AD 649: Agile Project Management
	The course provides an understanding of how new Agile principles and practices are changing the landscape of project management. The course is designed to give project managers fresh new insight into how to successfully blend Agile and traditional project management principles and practices in the right proportions to fit any business and project situation. The course provides a deep understanding of Agile project management principles and practices in order to see them as complementary rather than competitive to traditional project management. Topics include: Agile fundamentals, principles, and practices;  roots of Agile in TQM and Lean Manufacturing; adapting an Agile approach to fit a business environment; planning and managing an enterprise-level Agile transformation; scaling agile to an enterprise level using enterprise-level Agile frameworks and Agile Project Management tools. 4cr.		

MET AD 650: Economic Development via Tourism in the Developing World
	Many branches of the tourism industry have become incorporated into the increasingly important economic paradigm of sustainable economic development (economic development while minimizing the negative environmental, social and cultural impact of such development) in both the developed and developing world. In this course students will visit a developing country and learn how the tourist industry has developed in that country, determine how sustainable that development has been and what are potential directions for future growth in the tourist industry.		

MET AD 655: International Business, Economics, and Cultures
	This course considers macroeconomic factors of relevance to the firm: aggregate economic activity, cyclical movements, and fiscal and monetary policies. The course reviews the problems of decision-making relating to demand, production, costs, market structure, and price, and provides an analysis of the interplay between governments, economic systems, labor, and multinational corporations (MNCs). Topics include: the basis for the existence, organization, and growth of MNCs; a comparison of major economic and government systems; areas include the impact on the firm's business transactions and trade due to taxation, regulation, legal environments and labor influences. This course additionally investigates the relationship between the interaction of national culture and development. Topics range from developing nations' rain forest and species management to pollution generated by developed nations. Culture, policy, and development are also discussed in relation to the impact of the business interactions (agriculture, fishing, technology transfer, etc.) among developing and developed nations.		

MET AD 657: Economic Sustainability, Development, and Competitiveness of a Tourist Destination
	This course allows the student to understand and learn how to develop and manage tourism destinations that have the capability to perform effectively in an increasingly competitive international marketplace in ways that are environmentally, socially, and culturally sustainable. Topics include: the evolving nature of competition and sustainability, dimensions of competitive destination and sustainable destination, the global macro-environment for tourism, the competitive micro-environment, core resources and attractors, supporting facilities, and destination policy, planning, and development.		

MET AD 660: Databases, Security, and Web Design
	This course presents a complete immersion into Web Technology, Internet, World Wide Web architecture, search engines, and Web page creation using the standard HTML language. Other topics include Dynamic HTML; scripting using JavaScript, VBScript and XML; server-side components such as CGI, ASP, and PERL. Develops knowledge and skills for both electronic commerce payment mechanisms and data transactions security of information and information systems within organizations.  Payment options for electronic commerce such as e-cash, SET, credit cards, systems design and methods of dealing with risks are covered. Other topics include: designing, implementing, managing, and auditing security at all levels; techniques for assessing risk associated with accidental and international breaches of security; ethical uses of information and privacy consideration; encryption; and digital certificates. (Not for computer science students).  		

MET AD 661: Marketing, Database, and Enterprise/Customer Relation Management
	The course focuses on solutions to manage and coordinate information and activities across an enterprise. The course reviews a framework to manage an effective program including the design, development, implementation and maintenance of a corporate ERM/CRM process. The course additionally provides lab work in the design and implementation of ERM/CRM database information systems. The lectures and assigned readings cover the ERM/CRM architectures; technologies and best practices and a team project will allow all participants to use a set of frameworks and tools to demonstrate their strategic, operational and technical understanding of ERM/CRM initiatives. 		

MET AD 665: Supply Chain Management
	Provides an overview of the supply chain management process relating to the major, and often competing, supply chain challenges concerning the simultaneous standardization and differentiation of consumer preferences for products and the continued minimization emphasis in supply chains. Topics evolve from historical supply chains that focused on efficiencies and execution to more competitive strategy oriented chains that involve getting the ?right? products to the consumer/marketplace at the right quality/price and quantity.  		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
