MET CJ 632: White Collar Crime
	The purpose of this course is to examine the nature and extent of corporate and white-collar crime,  including detection, deterrence, and criminal liability sanctions, as well as, the social and legal changes  related to corporate illegality. Students will use case materials which address securities fraud, money  "laundering", professional deviance, and political corruption, in addition to other topics. Students will also  analyze policy responses including RICO and other laws, regulations and court processing. 		

MET CJ 650: Terrorism
	This course will include a general introduction to the overt as well as underlying ideology, history, reasons and causes of terrorism. Both domestic and international terrorism will be discussed. Domestic hate groups will also receive particular attention. The roles of politics and the media will be discussed. Students will be exposed to the philosophies of terrorists and terrorism. Counter terrorism will also be discussed at length.  Students are expected to participate actively in the course. There will be written assignments, a midterm, a class presentation, and a final paper.		

MET CJ 656: Forensic Criminal Investigation
	Forensic Criminal Investigation is an examination of the strategies, techniques, and procedures implicated in the process of conducting forensic criminal investigations, i.e. cases that will seek adjudication in the criminal court.  Students will examine cold cases, concluded successful investigations, ongoing investigations as well as the perspective and worldview of the perpetrators and victims of violent crimes in an effort to deconstruct and disassemble crimes, crime scenes and the criminal mind. 		

MET CJ 660: Gender and Justice
	This course examines the role of gender in both criminal behavior and the societal response to crime.   Gender affects criminal behavior, structures our responses to crime, and presents unique challenges for  the criminal justice system.  While the course examines the role of gender in these ways for both men  and women, the course focuses on the limitations of research, policy and practice that has focused  traditionally on male offenders.  The course also examines the role of gender in criminal justice  organizations and processes.  		

MET CJ 701: Crime and Punishment
		Police officers, corrections officers, probation and parole officers, youth service officers, federal law  enforcement agents, and court professionals are all called upon on a daily basis to make critical decisions  that significantly affect the lives of those entrusted to them. Students in this course will consider  applications of ethical actions as they pertain to issues of social justice. Toward that end, we will forge a  strong notion of our definition of just what constitutes social justice. 		

MET CJ 702: Analytical Methods
	This course introduces students to the use of quantitative data in analyzing the criminal justice system.  It serves as an introduction to the statistical methods used in applied social science research and furthers students' understanding of the role statistical analysis plays in planning and policy development.		

MET CJ 703: Research Methods
	This course introduces students to the practice, theory, and philosophy of social science research, with a special focus on criminal justice. It not only broadens students' knowledge of the ethical issues associated with research, but also introduces them to a variety of research techniques such as surveys, field research, and experimental designs. Research Methods will lay the foundation for students to become informed "consumers" of research, as well as "producers" of it.		

MET CJ 725: Forensic Behavior Analysis
	This course will examine the fascinating world of forensic psychology. It will examine the way in which  the law and mental health intersect and forensic psychologists help the court in addressing a variety of  cases and issues.  The course will explore how expert opinions are formed and provided on a variety of  issues including;  not guilty by reason of mental illness pleas, competency to stand trial, prediction of  future violence, sexual predators; psychopaths, the forcible medication of mentally ill patients, and   civil commitment.  The difference between sound and "junk" science will be discussed.  		

MET CJ 750: Policing in a Democratic Society
	Police agencies play a critical role in a democratic society. While seeking to maintain order, enforce the law and deliver services effectively, police agencies are held accountable to a wide-variety of values by a number of powerful stakeholders. Police leaders, managers, and other personnel must understand the complexities of the police role in society, the political and legal constraints placed on them in addition to being experts in effective, evidence-based approaches to dealing with crime problems in the community. By applying theory, policy, and evaluation literature to the cutting-edge practices in the field, this course provides students with an advanced understanding in the field of police leadership, management, strategy, and accountability within a democratic society. 4 cr. 		

MET CJ 775: Seminar in the Law and Criminal Procedure
	This course examines the origins and evolution of contemporary criminal procedure. Case law governing criminal justice functions such as stops, interrogations, arrests, warrants, identification practices, the use of informants, and searches and seizures will be explored through the prism of the U.S. Constitution and the Bill of Rights. 		

MET CJ 801: Special Project in Criminal Justice
		Individual faculty supervision of an independent student project demonstrating application of previous program coursework to a selected topic, issue, or theme in criminal justice. 		

MET CJ 831: Criminal Justice Administration
	The challenge of administering, managing, and leading today's criminal justice organizations is becoming  increasingly complicated due to many factors, ranging from terrorism and cyber crime to politicization and  privatization. This course provides students with not only a conceptual and theoretical basis on which to  manage these complex entities, but also practical approaches to organizational effectiveness, integrity,  and innovation. 		

MET CM 702: Advertising and Society
	Analyzes the impact of advertising on individuals and society and evaluates the ethical, moral, and legal questions relating to the advertising industry. The history of advertising and the rise of consumerism will be studied to create a paradigm for understanding the social effects of advertising. Students will study the issues of advertising in cyberspace and questions of privacy and protection from intrusive communication messages.		

MET CM 704: Contemporary Mass Communication
	Overview of and current trends in the contemporary mass media labor force. Topics include career opportunities in print, film, broadcast, and digital media; changing relationships between media; contemporary patterns of ownership and audience attention; how the media select their content, how they are financed, and how they are related to agencies of control; and ethical issues and controversies regarding media content and influences.  		

MET CM 707: Writing for Media Professionals
	Introduction to basic formats, including news releases, editorials, features, profiles, scripts, and basic copy qualities such as readability, clarity, crispness, color, and organization. Emphasis on developing the ability to write copy for varied audiences. Regular writing assignments; considerable rewriting. Includes lead writing, editing, and interviewing. 		

MET CM 708: Principles and Practices of Advertising
	Overview of the nature, function, practice, and social, economic, and behavioral aspects of advertising. Student teams develop advertising plans, create campaigns, and explore problems of account management, creativity, production, and ethics. 		

MET CM 711: Consumer Insight and Account Planning
	Grad Prereq: MET CM 708  Explores how to arrive at consumer insights that lead to better advertising and promotion. The course focuses on the set of skills necessary to create breakthrough advertising, including qualitative research, observation, interviewing skills, mapping, and presentation tools. Students learn to write effective creative briefs. 		

MET CM 714: Video in the Digital Age
           			The role of video has become even more significant in terms of the digital environment for branded content, webisodes, viral video, corporate micro-documentaries, and instructional/educational website content. How this is integrated with, and disseminated by, social media is key. In addition, budgetary constraints in relation to work for the web often require a different creative approach than traditional broadcast media. This course explores the creative development of video concepts and introduces students to basic production techniques as they relate to the development of video geared for the web. This is mainly a writing and concept development course. Some rudimentary editing techniques are discussed throughout the semester.		

MET CM 716: Digital Communication
	This course is designed to introduce students to using new media tools for creating media communication. Students build an integrated campaign and web site using software, which includes Photoshop, InDesign, iMovie, Dreamweaver and Flash. Students develop an understanding of the process of design consisting of: ideation, strategy and execution. <br><br> Permission required for non-MET students. Contact Metropolitan College, 755 Commonwealth Avenue, Room 103 (617-353-3000) for more information.		

MET CM 717: Fundamentals of Creative Development
	Examines the creative process in advertising, including concept development, copywriting, layout, and campaign strategies. Emphasis is on print advertising, but radio and television commercials are also included. Assignments include consumer and trade advertisements for both new and mature products.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
