MET MG 310: Business Communication
	Organization and techniques for effective verbal and written communication in the business environment. Emphasis on developing communication skills through practical written and oral assignments.		

MET MG 315: Operations Management
	Introduction to the operating functions of a firm. Emphasis on problem-solving skills using analytical techniques. Includes production planning and inventory control, quality control, forecasting, capacity planning, and work-study. Viewed from the aspect of management. 		

MET MG 320: Managerial Psychology
	Development of management and organization theory; nature and function of the management process. Motivation, perception, anxiety, and communication. Process and problems of organizational change. 		

MET MG 410: Entrepreneurial Management: Starting, Innovating, and Managing Small-, Medium-, and Large-Sized Ventures
	Covers the four key elements of successful entrepreneurial management: choosing a business, organizing, financing, and marketing. Includes preparing a business plan, becoming an entrepreneur, raising venture capital, selling, negotiating, and building an effective organization. Topics given special consideration are the practice of innovation, the art of leadership, and how to relate talents to succeeding in an innovative managed venture and technology management. 		

MET MG 411: Marketing Communications
           			Examines the tools and techniques of communications used in marketing products, ideas, or services. Focus on analyzing, designing, selecting, and evaluating marketing communication strategies. 		

MET MG 415: Project Management
	An examination of project management concepts, including organizational forms, planning and control techniques, and the role of the project manager. Develops the skills vital to effective management of multidisciplinary tasks through lectures, case studies, and business simulations. 		

MET MG 420: International Finance
           			Introduction to international financial markets and institutions. Foreign exchange markets, capital flows; speculation and analysis of alternative foreign investment; financial planning for multinational corporations; and analysis of sources and uses of corporate funds abroad. 		

MET MG 431: International Marketing
	Organization of the marketing function in international business. How government policies and practices affect marketing. Comparative marketing strategies for doing business abroad. Examination of case studies.		

MET MG 435: Advertising
	The structure and operating procedures of advertising agencies and corporate advertising departments in relation to marketing. Active student participation in learning how advertising strategies and concepts are developed and executed. Includes readings, development of advertising strategies, screenings, and analysis of contemporary advertising. 		

MET MG 448: Electronic Commerce, Systems, and Web Design
	The first course in a two course sequence. This course combines (1) the practical aspect of Web design through the use of application software such as Dreamweaver to construct a commercial Web site with (2) a general overview of the marketing, supporting services, systems, security and business strategy issues facing commercial enterprises. 4 cr		

MET MG 460: Senior Project I
	The first course of two for completion of the senior project for the degree completion program.		

MET MG 461: Senior Project II
	The second course of two for completion of the senior project for the degree completion program.		

MET MG 472: Financial Concepts
	Emphasizes issues of accounting, finance, and economics that are important in most management contexts. Introduction to tools of financial analysis and the problems of financial management including cash, profitability, and capital budgeting. Various sources of corporate funds are considered - short-, intermediate-, and long-term arrangements Stresses understanding financial statements, planning and control, cost and benefit evaluation, cash flow analysis, and capital budgeting. 		

MET MG 473: Quantitative and Qualitative Decision Making
	This is a basic level course combining the elements of quantitative and qualitative decision making for business. The course exposes the student to practical quantitative approaches to mathematical decision making as well as a wind variety of qualitative approaches for both the services and product industries. Emphasis is placed on the definition of the problem, analysis of the approaches available to solve the problem, an understanding of the limitations and strengths of these approaches as well as the resources necessary. The course additionally prepares the student with design and presentation skills necessary to organize the communications of stating the problem and its different solution or outcome possibilities when the rational for taking a particular course of action needs to be presented to others or the material is being prepared for others who will make business decisions based on the information. 4 cr.		

MET MG 493: Special Topics
	This course description is currently under construction.		

MET MG 503: Business in a Changing Society
           			An examination of the management process and the social environment in which organizations operate, including a discussion of the manager's responsibilities to employees, customers, stockholders, and society.		

MET MG 505: Quantitative Methods in Management
           			Quantitative procedures used to study underlying structure of decision-making problems in business and industry. Includes limitations of the management science methodology.		

MET MG 509: Case Studies in Current Corporate Financial Topics
           			Financial forecasting and planning: capital budgeting, cost of capital, dividend policy, rate of return, and financial aspects of growth. Readings and extensive use of case studies. 		

MET MG 512: Financial Markets and Institutions
           			Investigation and analysis of organization, structure, and performance of U.S. money, capital, markets, and institutions. Examines regulation of the financial industry and the role of financial instruments. 		

MET MG 515: Negotiations and Organizational Conflict Resolution
		A communications skills course designed to better understand the nature of conflict and its resolution through persuasion, collaboration, and negotiation. Students will learn theories of interpersonal and organizational conflict and its resolution as applied to personal, corporate, historical, and political contexts. Students will assess their own styles, skills, and values, and develop techniques to better resolve disputes, achieve objectives, and exert influence.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
