MET AR 730: Political and Public Advocacy for the Arts
	Political and Public Advocacy for the Arts will address the politics of arts and culture through seminars with political and cultural leaders, class discussion, readings, and research. Students will develop advocacy campaign plans and analyze how cultural organizations interact with all levels of government.		

MET AR 740: Arts and the Internet
	The course examines the World Wide Web and digital technology, as they relate to Artists and Arts organizations. Class will include presentations, lectures, readings and class discussions. Special attention is given to critical examination, and formal treatment for site development, which will include; analyzing an organization, and other websites of similar organizations, defining the needs of the organization, how the on-line presentation should be visualized, and developing the technical skills students will need as future art administrators. 		

MET AR 750: Financial Management for Nonprofits
	Analyzes issues of accounting, finance, and economics in the context of the not-for-profit organization. Stresses understanding financial statements, budget planning and control, cash flow analysis, and long term planning. 		

MET AR 766: Arts &amp; the Community
	An analysis of issues that involve the engagement of cultural institutions with their immediate community. Includes examination of local arts centers, local arts councils, arts service organizations, agency/government relations, urban issues, multiculturalism, and festivals. 		

MET AR 771: Managing Performing Arts Organizations
		A review of topics essential for successful management of performing arts organizations.Examination of both facilities management and company management. Studies include organizational structure, trustee/staff relations, marketing, audience building, fund-raising, tour management, box office management, budgeting, mailing list and membership management, human resource management and contract negotiation, performance measurement, and strategic planning. 		

MET AR 774: Managing Visual Arts Organizations
		Emphasizes museums, but also includes a review of alternative spaces, commercial galleries, and auction houses. Topics include the changing role of the museum, exhibition planning, fund-raising, crisis management, audience development, and strategic planning. 		

MET AR 777: Comparative Cultural Policy and Administration
		Students travel to London for one week while examining the nature of cultural policy in the United States, the United Kingdom, and the European Union from 1950 to the present. 		

MET AR 778: Legal Issues in Arts Administration
	Analysis of legal implications of managing an arts institution. Topics include nonprofits and tax-exempt structure, contracts, copyright for performing and visual artists, artists' moral rights legislation, royalties and artists' economic rights, international movement of art (duties/immigration restrictions) and artists, nonprofit incorporation, and tax-exempt status for organizations. 		

MET AR 779: Public Art Program Administration
	An overview of public art programs in the United States and of related management issues. Includes government-sponsored funds for art and other funding systems; and working with federal, state, and local governments, artists, architects, and community groups in artist selection, site preparation and long-term maintenance.		

MET AR 780: Arts in Cuba
	Offered in early January (Spring Semester), The Arts in Cuba examines the role of contemporary art, culture and artists in Cuba. The emphasis is on visual arts and the role of the artist in Cuban society, but music, theater and dance are also discussed in their historical, social, economic, and cultural context. We will have the opportunity to visit many of the key cultural institutions in Havana and hear from their leaders how these institutions function. Meets on campus (three times) and in Cuba for one week.		

MET AR 781: Special Topics:  Arts Leaders Forum
	The "Arts Leaders Forum" consists of a series of conversations with arts leaders, including entrepreneurs,  community leaders and established industry experts. Each week guests will share their experiences with  the class. In addition to guest speakers, students will focus on leadership skills and exercises through  readings and cases. The goal of this course is to give students insight into the pressing issues of managing  arts organizations, to gain leadership skills and to provide insight into career options.		

MET AR 787: The Arts in Barcelona
	International travel course in which students have the opportunity to visit cultural institutions and meet professionals in the arts field. Discussion topics include cultural policy, museum systems, financing the arts in Barcelona, European copyright issues, and the theater and music institutional framework and support system. 4 cr 		

MET AR 789: Cultural Entrepreneurship
	Explores the emerging field of cultural entrepreneurship. The course covers a variety of topics,  including the artist as entrepreneur; new business models for arts organizations; art and social  change; and the role of entrepreneurs in cultural organizations. Through case studies, guest  speakers, readings, and group exercises, students will learn about innovative entrepreneurial  initiatives that straddle the boundaries between the private, nonprofit, and public sectors. Guided  exercises enable students to assess and develop their skills as future change agents.		

MET AR 802: Internship in Arts Administration
	Two consecutive two-credit courses for planning (AR 802) and fieldwork (AR 803) phases of the internship. Arts Administration degree students only.		

MET AR 803: Internship in Arts Administration
	Two consecutive two-credit courses for planning (AR 802) and fieldwork (AR 803) phases of the internship. Students may not register for MET AR 803, or begin their actual internship until they have completed a minimum of six of the ten required courses. Arts Administration degree students only. 		

MET AR 804: Advanced Management and Consulting for Arts Organizations
	The purpose of this course is to increase students' ability to analyze and solve problems that confront arts organizations. Students will apply financial, marketing, fundraising, and legal knowledge and techniques to (1) in-class discussion of key management issues of concern to senior leadership, and (2) a semester-long consulting project which partners and team of students with a local arts organization. Permission from instructor required/arts administration students only. Students may not register for MET AR 804 until they have completed a minimum of six required courses.		

MET AS 101: The Solar System
	One of the great achievements of modern science is to understand where we are in space and time.  Since the 1920's, we have known our cosmic address in the Milky Way galaxy, and from the 1930's on  we have been refining our understanding of where we are in the history of the universe. This  perspective has been hard-won, through persistent questioning, observation and creative thinking, and  its historical development parallels the development of the process of science. It has also led to our  present efforts to understand the origin and evolution of life as well as the future of our planet and the  very existence of humanity. Since the 1970's, we have been enjoying a remarkable period of solar  system exploration. We have landed on and flown by worlds both nearby and far away allowing us to  download maps of other solar system objects onto our hand-held devices. With new, larger telescopes,  we have discovered new planetary systems, new classes of objects in our solar system and even revised  the definition of the word planet. Most profoundly of all, we are actively searching for life elsewhere in  our solar system.  In this course we will examine how we came to our present understanding of our place in the universe  and the recent discoveries that are making solar system science so exciting. 		

MET AT 602: Laboratory for Actuarial and Financial Data Analysis II
	A more in-depth seminar than AT 601, covering the same topics in greater detail. Ten sessions.		

MET AT 721: Mathematics of Compound Interest
           			This course develops uses of interest as it relates to the theory of finance.  It will develop an understanding of interest calculations as they relate to bonds, mortgages, annuities under continuous and discrete payment schemes, and for instruments with non-level payment schemes. 		

MET AT 722: Finance for Actuaries
           			This course covers basic models and tools of corporate finance. Topics include net present value valuation, internal rate of return and profitability index models, capital budgeting models and efficient market hypotheses.  These tools will be used to understand and apply basic principles of option pricing theory, including the Black-Scholes formula with application to binomial lattice valuation.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
