MET ML 700: Culinary Arts Laboratory
	Founded in 1989 by Julia Child and Jacques Pépin--who continues to teach in the program each   semester--the Certificate Program in the Culinary Arts at Boston University's Metropolitan College is a   unique course of study that introduces participants to the essential techniques, knowledge, and hands-  on experience necessary to excel in the food industry.<br><br> The Laboratory in the Culinary Arts for  Spring 2014, is an 8 credit course that meets Mondays through  Thursdays, 10:30 until 6 pm,  depending on evaluating your work and cleanup time. Morning class is  usually a lecture, a food  demonstration or a field trip. The afternoon session, which begins at 1 pm,  sharp, is hands-on cooking.  You will learn the cooking skills and techniques of France, the Americas, and  Italy, as well as other  ethnic techniques of food preparation. Tuition is $6,240 plus a $4,000 lab fee. The  program is taught  entirely by working chefs and industry professionals from Boston and beyond-- serving as an ideal  entrée to hundreds of food-related careers, from culinary writing to restaurant  management to  working as a chef. Our skilled team of core instructors comprises esteemed local  restaurant owners,  chefs, and consultants, while our visiting instructors include renowned chefs and  restaurateurs from  around the nation. <br><br> Some of our faculty for Spring 2014 are:   Jacques Pepin, John Vyhnanek,  author, past owner of Harvard Street Grill, past  executive chef at the Ritz Carlton Hotel, Boston,  restaurant consultant; Jean Jacques Paimblanc, past  executive chef Legal Sea Foods, Pavilion, Howard  Johnsons, Panera Bread, Signature Breads; Janine  Sciarappa, pastry chef; Chris Douglass, owner/chef  Ashmont Grill, Tavolo, past owner Icarus; Jeremy  Sewall, executive chef/co-owner Eastern Standard,  Island Creek Oyster Bar and Grill, Lineage; Michael  Leviton, executive chef/owner Lumiere, Area Four,  Jeff Fournier, 51 Lincoln, Barry Maiden, Hungry  Mother. The following instructors will have taught this  semester either one or more times: Deborah  Hansen, Taberna de Hara; Ihsan Gurdal, Formaggio  Kitchen;  Sam Huang, Super Fusion;  Sandy Block;  Master of Wine; Jim Dodge, world famous baker;   Max Harvey, Jasper White's Summer Shack; Bess  Emanuel, food consultant; Fabrizia Lanza, consultant  and owner Anna Tasca Lanza Culinary School,  Sicily; Nina Gallant, food photographer; Bill Nesto,  Master of Wine; Irene Costello and Joan Mac Isaac,  food product producers; Raymond Ost, chef/owner  Sandrine's Restaurant; Joseph Polak, Rabbi and  expert on Kosher foods, Boston University Hillel;  Patrick Dubsky, owner Winestone and former  sommelier;  Jean --Claude Szurdak on French pastries;  Sheryl Julian, food editor of the Boston Globe;  Joseph Carlin, food historian; Priscilla Martel, baker;  Mary Ann Esposito, expert on foods of Italy, Leo  Romero, expert on culture and cuisine of Mexico,  owner/chef Casa Romero; Jackson Cannon, mixologist  and sommelier;  Garrett Harker, owner Eastern  Standard and Island Creek Oyster Bar and Grill; and  many others. <br><br> This intensive, four-month   Program in the Culinary Arts provides a strong foundation in classic French  and modern cooking  techniques, along with exposure to  international cuisines. Under the tutelage of  professional working  chefs and food industry experts, you will engage in lectures and demonstrations,  and acquire hands-on  experience in our state-of-the-art laboratory kitchen--one of the finest in the  country. From simple  techniques to more difficult and complex preparations, you will develop valuable  cooking skills  through discipline and practice.  The program also provides a broader understanding of  the past,  present, and future of the global food economy, and the principles of small- and large-scale  food  production.<br><br>  There is no other course of this kind offered anywhere. It is a perfect fit to the  interdisciplinary  approach to food studies in the Gastronomy Program. Only 12 students are admitted  into this course  each semester. Lisa Falso is the exclusive supervisor for this program. She will guide  you throughout  the four-months. Students have access to our extensive collection of historic  cookbooks, which includes  seminal literature on gastronomy, cuisine, and wine studies. 		

MET ML 701: Introduction to Gastronomy: Theory and Methodology
	This course is designed to introduce students to current and foundational issues in food studies and   gastronomy. Through this focus on central topics, students will engage directly in the interdisciplinary   method that is central to food studies. Each week will introduce a unique view of the holistic approach   that is central to a liberal arts approach to studying food and a new research technique will be   presented and put into practice through the readings and course exercises. This course will give   Gastronomy students a better understanding of the field as a whole. While providing an overview and   methodological toolbox, it will act as a springboard in to areas of specialization of the course. 4 cr.		

MET ML 704: Special Topics
	Fall 2014 - MET ML704 C1 - Special Topic: "Beer &amp; Spirits."<br>  In this course  we will explore the great variety of beer styles and spirit  categories  currently available and the role each plays in our culture. We will  survey  significant developments in the historical evolution, production,  distribution,  consumption and cultural usage of these alcoholic beverages in the  US. We will  taste beer and spirits extensively to demonstrate examples of the  most  important categories and classifications. 2 credits. <br><br> Fall 2014 - MET  ML704 S1  - Special Topic: "Starting Your Own Food Business."<br> No matter what  type of  food business one wants to start, a plan and expert advice on how to go  about it  is necessary.  The goal of this course is to introduce the  fundamentals of food  service business planning, focusing on restaurants, cafes,  bistros and personal  chef businesses. Topics from food safety to employee  management to finances and  operations will be covered by instructors  experienced in many aspects of  successful food businesses, along with guest  speakers from the industry. The  culmination of the course is a working business  plan to aid the student in the  realization of their concept. 2 credits.<br><br>		

MET ML 705: Artisan Cheeses of the World
	An in-depth exploration of the styles and production of cheeses from regions around the world, from their beginnings on the farm to the finished products at the table. 2 cr		

MET ML 706: Food and Gender
	This course takes an anthropological, cross-cultural, and interdisciplinary approach to food and gender,  looking at how masculinity and femininity are defined through beliefs and practices surrounding food and  body.  It explores theories of gender and methods for studying it and engages students in ethnographic  research on gender and food.		

MET ML 707: Directed Study
		Students may work with a full-time Boston University faculty member to complete a Directed Study  project on a topic relevant to the program.  These projects must be arranged with and approved by  Gastronomy program coordinator.		

MET ML 708: Directed Study
		Prereq: consent of coordinator. 		

MET ML 709: Directed Study
	Directed Study - Permission Required. 		

MET ML 711: The Many Meanings of Meat
	There is perhaps no foodstuff more prized than meat, and there is none more problematic. Long associated with power, masculinity, vitality, and progress, meat is also linked to imperialism, sexism, speciesism, environmental collapse, foodborne disease, and chronic illness. In this comprehensive overview we will examine meat's many historical, economic, ecological, ethical, and nutritional dimensions. Coursework will include a wide variety of readings, online discussions, written assignments, field trips, and other experiential opportunities.  4 credits		

MET ML 712: The Sociology of Food and Labor
	This course will bring a sociological perspective to the study of food and labor by exploring farming,  farmers, and food production in the United States. Using an intersectional lens of class, race, gender,  and sexuality, we will explore such questions as: How are social categories relevant to farming? What  are the social and cultural narratives shaping our current understanding of farmers and farming? What  is the relationship of this narrative to the recent upsurge of beginning farmers? How is food production  influenced by, and influencing, social life? While much of the course reading is based in social science  scholarship, material will include fiction, popular and visual media, memoir, and documentary film.  Assignments include co-facilitation of one discussion, two short analytical papers, and a final  paper/project.		

MET ML 713: Agricultural History
	This course surveys the history of American agriculture from the colonial era to the present.  It examines  how farmers understood markets, made crop choices, adopted new technologies, developed political  identities, and sought government assistance.  Emphasis on the environmental, ideological, and  institutional impact of farm modernization and industrialization.		

MET ML 714: Urban Agriculture
	Growing food in urban contexts raises interesting questions about food access, nutrition education, perceptions of public spaces and the place of nature in the urban environment. This course focuses on urban agriculture in Boston and a number of case studies from around the globe. Students visit gardens, learn basic cultivation skills through hands-on activities, and study the social and cultural sides of urban agriculture, as well as the political and city planning aspects of urban agriculture projects. 4 cr.		

MET ML 715: Food and the Senses
	This course is an interdisciplinary exploration of the sensory foundations and implications of food.  We  will study the senses as physical and cultural phenomena, the evolving concepts of terroir and craft,  human nutritional and behavioral science, sensory perception and function, and the sensory and  scientific aspects of food preparation and consumption.   Understanding these processes, constructions  and theories is key to understanding a vast array of food-related topics; cheese-making, wine-tasting,  fermentation, food preservation, culinary tools and methods, cravings and food avoidance,  sustainability and terroir, to name just a few. 		

MET ML 720: Food Policy and Food Systems
	This course presents frameworks and case studies that will advance participants' understandings of U.S. and global food systems and policies. Adopting food-systems and food-chain approaches, it provides historical, cultural, theoretical and practical perspectives on world food problems and patterns of dietary and nutritional change, so that participants acquire a working knowledge of the ecology and politics of world hunger and understand the evolution of global-to-local food systems and diets. Global overview of world food situations will be combined with more detailed national and local-level case studies and analysis that connect global to local food crisis and responses.  		

MET ML 721: US Food Policy and Culture
	This course overviews the forces shaping U.S. food policies, cultural politics, diet, and nutrition situations in the twenty-first century.  After reviewing the history of U.S. domestic food policy, course discussions consider globalization, new agricultural and food technologies, new nutrition knowledge, immigration, and "sustainable-food" ideology as drivers of American dietary and food-regulatory change.  "Food systems," "food chains," and "dietary structure" provide the major analytical frameworks for tracing how food moves from farm to table, and the role of local through national government and non-government institutions in managing these food flows.  		

MET ML 722: Studies in Food Activism
	In this class students will explore the work of anthropologists and other social scientists on food  activism citizens' efforts to promote social and economic justice through food practices and challenge  the global corporate agrifood system.  The class will explore diverse individual and collective forms of  food activism including veganism, gleaning, farmers' markets, organic farming, fair trade, CSAs, buying  groups, school gardens, anti-GMO movements, Slow Food, Via Campesina, and others. It will address  the questions: what is food activism, what are its goals, what is working and not working, and what are  the results? 		

MET ML 800: Masters Project
	Students nearing the completion of their degree requirement for the MLA in Gastronomy may register for the Masters Project. This graduation requirement is available for students who entered the MLA program during or after Fall 2009. The Masters Project must be completed under the direction of a full-time Boston University faculty member. The coordinator of the Gastronomy program must approve a topic, outline, bibliography and schedule for the project. Please contact the program coordinator for further details and guidelines. Students must also concurrently enroll in ML 802. 2 cr.		

MET ML 801: Masters Thesis
		Students nearing the completion of their degree requirement for the MLA in Gastronomy may register for the Masters Project.  This graduation requirement is required for students who entered the MLA program before Fall 2009. The Masters Thesis must be completed under the direction of a full-time Boston University faculty member. The coordinator of the Gastronomy program must approve a topic, outline, bibliography and schedule for the project. Please contact the program coordinator for further details and guidelines. 4 cr.		

MET PH 101: Basic Problems of Philosophy
	Introduction to classical philosophical problems concerning human nature and knowledge, freedom and morality, and reason and justice. 		

MET PH 110: Great Philosophers
	Introduction to the life and thought of five preeminent philosophers from classical times through the modern era.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
