MET UA 560: City in the Media
	-		

MET UA 590: International Comparative Urbanization and Planning
	Examination of a selected country, region, or city in relation to issues of urbanization and development planning. Emphasis on comparative analysis of policy, techniques, conditions, issues, and effectiveness. Topics and international subjects vary. Consult the department for details. 		

MET UA 604: Urban Political Decision-Making: Citizen Participation in the Planning Process
	Case studies of political decision-making roles in urban conflict management and resource allocation. Community power distribution, factors influencing change, leadership styles, and relationships to administrators and planners. Selected policy issues, such as redevelopment, education, crime, and service delivery. 		

MET UA 611: Community Development
	Examination of community development challenges in several areas, including housing, economic development, community policing, and resident activism. Analysis of past and present strategies for strengthening communities through case studies, actual government and community programs, guest lectures, and related readings. 		

MET UA 613: Designing Urban Space
	The role of urban design in the community development process. Examines human behavior, aesthetic foundations of design methods, citizen/client participation, and public policy issues. Analysis of actual community spaces. Student design exercises. 		

MET UA 617: Living Systems Theory and Design
	The class takes an experiential approach to explore and answer the following questions: How can we  reconcile the interrelationship between perceived human needs and earth's living processes? Students  engage with the theory and practical implementation of current practices of 'sustainability' and living  systems thinking. The living processes of community are explored as a catalyst for healthy change,  design-based thinking, and on-the-ground implementation of holistic planning models. The course is  based on the experience and writings of leading living system theorists, authors, architects, planners,  developers, and landscape architects. By the end of the course, students' understanding will shift from  seeing the world as pieces in relationship to seeing it as inseparable 'wholes' of systems nested within  one another.		

MET UA 619: Urban Transportation Policy and Planning
	This course will provide students with a broad introduction to important concepts and policy issues in transportation, principally at an urban and metropolitan level.  In addition, the course will explore methods planning practitioners can use to analyze transportation problems and propose solutions. The course will use specific examples of planning initiatives (both operations and capital) from transportation agencies within the Boston Metropolitan region. Guest speakers from local, regional, and state transportation agencies within the Greater Boston Metropolitan area will supplement the instructor's lectures and assigned readings. 		

MET UA 620: Urban and Regional Land Use Policy and Planning
	Techniques of land use planning, including socioeconomic studies, market analysis and needs forecasting, mapping, environment and service impacts, and transportation/land use coordination. Policies for achieving land use objectives: planned unit development, zoning, development corporations, new towns, and land preservation. 		

MET UA 623: Regional and Metropolitan Development Planning
	Analysis of regional planning as applied to land use, economic development, infrastructure systems, and other topics. Cases and class projects selected from metropolitan and substate regions, including regional approaches and organizations, economic base, comparative advantage, and growth centers. 		

MET UA 629: Urbanization and the Environment
	Interrelationships between physical environment and processes of urbanization. Case studies develop historical perspective on social, economic, and physical aspects of the quality of urban life. Special attention to the preparation of environmental impact statements and assessment of urban environmental quality. 		

MET UA 654: Geographic Information Systems for Planners
	Geographic Information Systems for Planners provides an introduction to Geographic Information  Systems (GIS) specifically with a focus on applications in urban planning.   The role of spatial analysis in  local, state and regional planning has steadily increased over the last decade with the infusion of  windows-based GIS software such as ESRI ArcGIS. The class focus is to prepare students to feel  comfortable communicating with other GIS users, research spatial data, and produce high quality  digital maps in an applied learning environment.		

MET UA 655: Connected City
	-		

MET UA 657: Housing from an International Perspective
	-		

MET UA 662: Non-Profits and Land Use Planning
	Nonprofits and Land Use Development will explore the unique land use and economic development  issues linked to non-profit institutions. Particular attention is paid to the relationship between the tax  status and land use patterns of non-profits and their broader impact on social equity, labor markets  and community relations. Students will also learn more about the legal controls communities use to  regulate development and the important role of community planning and professional planners in the  development process. 		

MET UA 664: Planning and the Development Process
	This course specifically explores the area where the private and public  sectors meet so that the student  can develop an awareness of the complexity of dealing with these often competing interests. The objective  of the course is to give the student an understanding of the motivations of the private sector in the way  they go about creating their products and projects and to leave the student with the tools and knowledge  to successfully negotiate the Public Interest with the Private Needs. 		

MET UA 668: Post Disaster Planning
	-		

MET UA 672: Regionalism
           			Based on the premise that the old city-versus-suburb view is outdated and does not serve well the  planning and public policy objective of creating sustainable living environments, this seminar examines  the region as an organic economic and social entity as well as a legitimate planning and administrative  unit.  Students undertake an in-depth analysis of the issues, challenges and opportunities faced by  institutionally fragmented U.S. metropolitan regions while exploring the emerging metropolitanist  policy movement which embodies the belief that cities and their suburbs are related, rather than  antithetical, and make up a single place.		

MET UA 675: Urban Sustainability
	-		

MET UA 701: Urban Problems and Policy Responses
	Major problems confronting urban areas and the process of policy formulation and implementation. Emphasis on problem interdependence and systems characteristics. Analysis of problem definitions (housing, crime, poverty, etc.), goals, public/private responsibilities, existing programs, and policy options. Analysis of selected, comparative international experience. 		

MET UA 702: Urban Analytical Methods
	Use and analysis of quantitative data in public policy development and planning. Basic skills of organization and presentation of numerical information. Introduction to descriptive statistics, hypothesis testing, correlation, and regression; computer use. Math review. 		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
