MET EN 546: The Modern American Novel
	From 1900 to the present, including Dreiser, Hemingway, Fitzgerald, Faulkner, and selected contemporary novelists. 		

MET EN 547: Contemporary American Fiction
	Study of American postmodern fiction and culture since 1950; includes works by Atwood, Barthelme, Burroughs, Coover, DeLillo, Nabokov, Pynchon, and others. 		

MET EN 550: Classics of British and American Literature
	"Classics of British and American Literature" is designed to teach some of the classic books of English-language literature, including several of those most widely read in American high schools, as well as some authoritative literary criticism on each of these works, their authors and genres. The course will include selected poems, short stories, and essays, as well as novels and provide historical background for each work and biographical information about the author. We will look at some film versions of the works studied. The course explicitly introduces students to issues and controversies concerning the nature and purpose of literature curricula in schools. These include the idea of a "classic," a literary canon, and a "high" culture, as opposed to or different from popular, commercial, contemporary, and utilitarian uses and forms of literature. Texts: Shakespeare, Julius Caesar; Douglass, Narrative; Hawthorne, The Scarlet Letter; Twain, Huckleberry Finn; Wharton, Ethan Frome; Fitzgerald, The Great Gatsby. Essays: Lincoln, Emerson,Thoreau. Short Stories: Hemingway, Anderson, Roth, Updike, Oates, Gordimer. Poetry: Whitman, Dickinson, Eliot, Frost, Owen, Larkin. Note: Course does not count for the English major.  		

MET EN 552: English Drama from 1590 to 1642
	The heritage of Marlow and Shakespeare: the collapse of a historic world; Jacobean pessimism and decadence in the plays of Jonson, Webster, Middleton, Ford, and others.		

MET EN 583: Contemporary Poetry
	Major voices since 1980 who inherit and expand American poetic traditions, selected from Ashbery, Collins, Graham, Hecht, Komunyakaa, Kunitz, Pinsky, Wilbur, and others. Related readings in immediate predecessors such as Justice, Merrill. Opportunity for student choice of emerging poets. 		

MET ES 107: Environmental Geology I: Geologic Hazards and Hostile Environments (N)
	Earthquakes and plate tectonics. Volcanic eruptions. Floods, erosion, and water pollution. Coastal hazards. 		

MET ES 108: Environmental Geology II: Land Use Planning, Environmental Impact, and Global Change (N)
	The course introduces the concept of global climate change and Earth system science by first discussing basic principles of environmental geology and plate tectonics. Groundwater, groundwater pollution, and environmental impact of resource recovery are discussed in the context of health and land-use planning. Other topics include glaciations, desertification, acid rain, global warming, and long-term geologic change.		

MET ES 141: Special Topics in Earth Science
	Course material and subject matter will vary semester to semester.		

MET ES 142: Shoreline Processes and Environments (N)
	Primary vs secondary coasts, barrier types, barrier island development, tidal inlet processes, shoreline erosion and depositional problems, coastal dunes, tidal marshes, and estuarine processes and environments. 		

MET HC 750: The American Health Care System for Health Communicators
	A vital component of the Health Communication curriculum, this course explores the health care system in terms of 1)communication within organizations, resources, and processes that constitute structure and operations; 2) relationships among stakeholders that shape it; and 3) resulting policies that impact system performance and influence the future of health care. Given the complexity and dynamics of the health care environment, an understanding of related issues at all levels is essential for effective communication and prevention of error within health care organizations. Without it, organizations must react defensively to environmental and political threats, often at the expense of patient safety and well-being; with it, organizations can act strategically to maximize growth opportunities and anticipate those forces that influence policy. The course draws upon multiple perspectives, including health communication in medicine and public health, health management (access, quality, and cost), politics, healthcare ethics, law, and the complexities of cross-cultural and psychosocial considerations within today's healthcare system.   [ 4 cr.]		

MET HC 751: Introduction to Epidemiology for Health Communicators
	This course is recommended for students who are not Epidemiology concentrators. The purpose of this course is to introduce the basic principles and methods of epidemiology and demonstrate their applicability in the field of public health. A further objective is to provide an introduction to the basic skills needed to critically interpret the epidemiologic literature relevant to public health professionals.   [ 4 cr.]		

MET HC 752: The Biology of Disease
	This course, designed for students who have little or no background in the biological sciences, provides a foundation in the biological mechanisms and principles underlying major health problems. Selected health problems are explored from a biological perspective in order to provide fundamental information about infectious and non-infectious agents of disease, disease transmission, biological defense mechanisms, co-evolution of man and microbes, the effects of nutritional deficiency and excess, effects of respiratory exposures, the biology of cancer, aging, and other topics. Each student completing this course should be able to knowledgeably participate in a discussion of related health problems with a basic understanding of the terminology, and the underlying biological mechanisms.   [ 4 cr.]		

MET HC 753: Nutrition and Health for Communicators
	The course provides an introduction to concepts in human nutrition and their application in the area of public health. In addition to providing basic information regarding nutrients, the design of practical diets that promote health throughout the life cycle will be discussed. Issues such as development of public health nutrition policy, program planning and administration, and nutrition surveillance will also be reviewed.   [ 4 cr.]		

MET HC 754: Ethical Issues in Medicine and Public Health Communication
	This course applies the core principles of bioethics to ethical dilemmas that arise in the context of public health, individualized medicine, and the provision of health care services in order to provide students with the tools necessary (i) to identify the stakeholders and their respective interests; (ii) to analyze those dilemmas from the perspectives of the various stakeholders; (iii) to think critically about the way public policy and public perceptions about the issues are shaped and thus (iv) to become effective agents of information concerning these kinds of controversies.		

MET HC 755: Contemporary Health Care Marketing
	This course provides an in-depth understanding of the essential concepts of marketing and their application to health care. Students gain a working knowledge of marketing tools (such as pricing, promotion, channels, consumer behavior, brand equity, and segmentation) and how to use them. Students build practical applied skills in analyzing marketing problems and developing marketing programs and strategies, with particular attention to health care and its organizational structures, financing, technologies, market demands, laws, and regulations. Students also expand their understanding of the differences and similarities between marketing in for-profit and not-for-profit health care organizations, and they increase their appreciation of the role of data collection, analysis, interpretation, and management in marketing decisions.   [ 4 cr.]		

MET HC 756: Contemporary Public Relations
	Provides an overview of the professional principles and practices in public relations for corporate, governmental, agency and nonprofit organizations. Includes history, organization, and scope of the field; its roots in social science; types of campaigns and programs; and professional ethics. Theories, strategies, and tactics in current practice emphasized and applied to health communication. Explores opportunities and requirements for work in the field. Students will learn to apply the basic public relations campaign planning model and examine public relations specialty practice areas including media relations, community relations, government relations, crisis communication, investor relations and employee communication.   [ 4 cr.]		

MET HC 757: Interactive Marketing Communications
	An overview of the theories, practices, and techniques in the emerging field of interactive marketing communications (IAMC). Students gain an understanding of the strategy and tactics of IAMC and its place in the more comprehensive field of marketing communications. In addition, students review IAMC's relationship to and its effects on society, culture, and the economic system. The course will explore almost all the ways interactive marketing can be practiced via the Internet: historical introduction, dotcom era, basic principles, database marketing, etail, email, search (SEO &amp; SEM/PPC), display advertising, social networking, gaming, mobile, et al.   [ 4 cr.]		

MET HC 758: Media Relations
	Students learn publicity techniques used in mass media communication, including working with daily and weekly newspapers, magazines, radio, television, film and online media. The course will examine the principles and practices of working with mass media "gatekeepers" to accomplish campaign objectives as well as strategies and tactics for communicating directly with audiences through new media. Students will develop knowledge and skills related to the production and use of media relations tools with a focus on health communication. Case studies will be employed to understand the challenges and opportunities inherent in working with mass media as well as the special demands and practices associated with crisis communication. The course will also explore the emerging role of interactive and social media.   [ 4 cr.]		

MET HC 759: Health Communication
	Health communication is an emerging field in which professional communicators inform, influence and motivate individual, institutional, and public audiences about important health issues. This course examines theories of interpersonal, organizational, and mass communication relevant to the professional communicator in the health field. Reviews strategies of persuasion, the relationship between attitudes and behavior, and the changing nature of health and health delivery in the United States, and evaluates successful and unsuccessful health information campaigns. 		

MET HI 101: The History of Western Civilization I
	Surveys the development of Western society and culture from a.d. 1000 to the French Revolution of 1789. Topics include the development of medieval European society and culture, the Renaissance, the Reformation, the scientific revolution, absolutism, enlightened despotism, and eighteenth-century rationalism. 		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
