MET RN 103: Religions of the World: Eastern
	Study of Hinduism, Buddhism, Taoism, Confucianism, and Shinto. Focus on the world view of each tradition and the historical development of that world view.		

MET RN 104: World Religion West
MET RN 211: Chinese Religion
	A historical survey of Chinese religion that explores the diversity and unity of Chinese traditions. Covers ancient mythology, cosmology, shamanism; Confucianism and the traditional state cult, Taoist mysticism, and immortality; Buddhism and Chinese religious transformation.  		

MET RN 212: Christianity
	This course critically explores Christianity in its multifaceted fronts. Aiming to bring fresh perspectives and advance a deeper understanding of Christianity, the course will delve into the important questions on God, humanity and the world in Christian traditions.   Explore the problem of God, evil, and suffering; visualize God and spatialize sacred space in Christianity; explore images of women in Christianity and encounter women in Christianity beyond Maria and Eve; learn Christianities beyond the West and how Christianity is transformed when it meets indigenous cultures; explore interreligious dialogue and Christianity?s self understanding in relation to other religions.   In addition to the classical and contemporary texts by Christian thinkers, students will be encouraged to explore films or other forms of culture to enhance their understanding of Christianity. This course does not assume any personal or theoretical knowledge of Christianity.   		

MET RN 220: The Holy City: Jerusalem in Time, Space and Imagination
	Historical development of Jerusalem and its symbolic meanings in Jewish, Christian, and Islamic traditions, from the Bronze Age to the 21st century.		

MET SO 100: Principles of Sociology
	This course introduces students to the basic theories and concepts associated with the study of society.  Within this framework students will explore the following questions: Why are people poor? What are the  dynamics of group behavior? Has modern society lost its traditional values? Do men and women think  differently? What is environmental racism? What explains the achievement gap in American education?  These questions and more will be discussed and analyzed through a sociological lens. 		

MET SO 201: Sociological Methods
	Scientific method, measurement, experimentation, survey research, observational methods, projective techniques, and content analysis used in social science research. 		

MET SO 203: Sociological Theories
	An introduction to the major theoretical perspectives used in sociological inquiry and how they apply to contemporary social life. Special emphasis on nineteenth-century European theorists such as Marx, Weber, and Durkheim. 		

MET SO 204: Contemporary Social Problems
	Relationship between individual and society in the postindustrial world. Problems in areas of work, education, cities, inequality, sexism, medicine, and law. Broad coverage of concepts dealing with alienation, institutional malaise, and societal ills. 		

MET SO 205: Marriage and the Family
	The nature of the American family and its ethnic and class variants throughout the family life cycle. Topics include courtship, mate selection, sexual behavior, reproduction, marital stability and divorce, social policies affecting family life, and the interrelationships of the family with other institutions. 		

MET SO 207: Sociology of Minority Groups
	Relations among various racial, national, cultural, and religious groups, emphasizing the development of black-white relations in American society. Also covers the problems of contemporary minority peoples in America and other societies.		

MET SO 209: Crime and Delinquency
	Analysis of criminal and delinquent behavior. Evaluation of current theories and research into causes and sociological implications of these behavior patterns. Examination of criminal justice systems, including police, courts, and corrections. 		

MET SO 233: Sociology of Occupations, Professions, and the Workplace
	Analysis of occupations, professions, and their social setting in modern corporations, government offices, and non-profit organizations. An examination of the role of complex organizations in structuring the demand for certain types of workers and skills. An evaluation of how workers themselves alter their own work settings. 		

MET SO 301: Women of the Developing World
	This class analyzes Third World women's lives within the context of a political-economic world system. It examines the critical role of international economic relationships in shaping the structure of women's status in developing nations. Using this framework the class explores the following issues: fertility and family planning, militarization and human rights, the refugee experience, women's changing role in agriculture, and community development. Four geographical areas will be targeted for in-depth study: Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, and Africa. 		

MET SO 302: Women and Health in the Twenty-First Century
	Examines current issues directly related to the health experiences of women in America and around the world. Topics include an historical overview of women's health and examine in depth issues such as: gender specific medicine; puberty, body image and eating disorders; contraception and the abortion issue; infertility and technology; pregnancy, childbirth and breast feeding; violence against women; incarcerated women and the female brain. Provides a framework to integrate the social variables involved in exploring the roles played by men and women as medical consumers and its affects on overall health and attitudes.		

MET SO 305: Violence in the Family
MET SO 306: Sociology of Aging
	Sociological issues related to aging in the contemporary world. Life cycle issues of health, medicine, benefits, leisure, and social policy. Review of measures designed to improve conditions for elderly here and abroad. 		

MET SO 308: Individual and Society
	Examination of current theories and research bearing on relationship between personality and social structure; contributions and convergent developments in psychology, anthropology, and sociology. 		

MET SO 310: Business and the Social Environment
	The role of business in the world of politics, economics, and society. 		

MET SO 311: Religion and Society
	The interrelationships of religious and social structures: denominations and social institutions, secular and sacred cultures, group behavior, ideology, and religious beliefs. 		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
