MET AH 370: Nineteenth-Century Art
	An examination of the new concepts of reality that grew out of the French Revolution, and how these concepts influenced the critical theories of Impressionist and Post-Impressionist art.		

MET AH 372: Modern Art
	Analysis of the work and thought of major masters of twentieth-century painting, sculpture, architecture, and photography, including the School of Paris and the New York School. 		

MET AH 380: Special Topics in Art History
	Program faculty selects seminar topics of current interest, usually with a singular focus, in the field.		

MET AH 389: Impressionism
	Detailed study of Impressionism from 1860s to circa 1900. Emphasis is on French artists, but Impressionists elsewhere in Europe and America are also considered. Discusses Impressionism's sources, Realist underpinnings, stylistic development, themes, and changes in the 1880s. 		

MET AH 395: Art, Computers, and Digital Imaging
	Introductory survey of digital imaging in the visual arts. Lectures and slides illustrate historical perspective, and hands-on studio sessions allow students to create and manipulate digital images. Emphasis on expressing personal ideas through new imaging techniques. 		

MET AH 419: Seminar: The Avant-Garde in the Arts
	The intention of this course is to offer in a seminar format, a combination of lecture and video presentations, outside exhibition review assignments, independent research, field trips, and classroom discussions.  The primary focus will be the fine arts and the related performing arts.  Artists often take on the ?hot button? themes and issues of contemporary culture.  Accordingly there will be presented strong images related to gender, race, religion, social and historical issues of war and conflict.  This is an important aspect of the basic approach of understanding, ?cutting edge,? challenging issues in contemporary art.  This material will be presented in an educational context but students who would potentially be offended by this imagery and its related discussion must consider whether it is appropriate to take this course.  A major area of study will be the manner in which contemporary art constantly evolves and changes in response to an ever-shifting world and how specific artists and movements have a particular and sustained influence.  		

MET AH 517: Seminar: The Art World
		An examination of the arts institutions, issues, and forces that shape the contemporary art world.  Topics include government cultural policy, National Endowment for the Arts, museums, symphonies, curators, critics, artists' rights, public art, corporate support, censorship, feminism and multiculturalism.  See also Arts Administration.  Stamped approval required.		

MET AH 598: Art and Popular Culture
	A survey of the visual arts in Cuba from the early twentieth century to the present, with an emphasis on contemporary art and an examination of the role of the artist in Cuban society. Work is discussed in its historical, social, economic, and cultural context. Students visit artists' studios, talk with Cuban artists and art administrators, and visit Havana's important museums and arts organizations.		

MET AN 101: Introduction to Cultural Anthropology
	A survey of the concepts, principles, and major areas of cultural anthropology. Comparative examination of institutions, processes of cultural change, and influence of culture on individual behavior in contemporary non-Western societies. 		

MET AN 102: Human Behavioral Biology and Evolution(N)
	Biology relevant to the behavioral sciences. Introduces basic principles of evolutionary biology, animal social behavior, primate adaptations, human origins, genetic/hormonal/neural bases of behavior, and issues of human socioecology and adaptations. Discussions highlight the interaction of Nature and Nurture.		

MET AN 210: Medical Anthropology
	This course in an introduction to the field of medical anthropology.  Medical anthropology studies the interactions between human health, culture and disease at the individual, community and populations levels.  This course emphasizes a biocultural approach to the study of health within the context of ecological and cultural systems.		

MET AR 510: Arts Leaders Forum
	The "Arts Leaders Forum" consists of a series of conversations with arts leaders, including entrepreneurs,  community leaders and established industry experts. Each week guests will share their experiences with  the class. In addition to guest speakers, students will focus on leadership skills and exercises through  readings and cases. The goal of this course is to give students insight into the pressing issues of managing  arts organizations, to gain leadership skills and to provide insight into career options. 4 cr. 2nd sem.		

MET AR 550: Raising Funds and Grant Writing for Nonprofit Organizations
	An introductory course that examines ways to raise funds from government, foundation, corporate, and individual sources. The following topics will be addressed through lectures and case analysis: the history of philanthropy, the planning and research process, proposal and grant preparation, program evaluation, and the role of the board and staff in developing effective fundraising strategies.		

MET AR 650: Writing for the Arts
	Arts professionals straddle two worlds, the world of the artist and the world of the manager. As artists, their job entails challenging the world; as managers, they must accommodate it. The course gives students the opportunity to develop written materials such as cover letters, resumes, fundraising appeals, press releases and exhibition and performance notes. Regular writing and critique assignments in a workshop format. 		

MET AR 690: The Art World
	An examination of the arts institutions, issues, and forces that shape the contemporary art world. Topics include government, cultural policy, National Endowment for the Arts, museums, symphonies, curators, critics, artists' rights, public art, corporate support, censorship, and feminism and multiculturalism. Usually taken as a first course. Non-Arts Administration students contact the Arts Admin Dept, 808 Commonwealth Ave.		

MET AR 700: Leadership and Career Development for Arts Administrators
	This course will cover both the theory and practice of effective leadership and career development in the arts. Topics will include negotiation and presentation skills, decision-making, consensus building, management styles, self-assessments, mock interviews, resume and cover letter strategies, and networking skills. Assignments will include experiential exercises, case studies, interviewing of leaders, public speaking, resume, cover letter, and mock interviews.		

MET AR 711: Capital Campaigns
	This course is designed to broaden the student?s understanding of capital campaign fundraising. Topics include: feasibility studies; strategic planning and budgeting; private and public phases; ethical responsibilities; staff, donor, volunteer, board, and trustee management; major gift solicitation; campaign communications; trend analysis; and evaluation. The course curriculum will include readings, case studies, guest speakers, and analysis of current capital campaign projects. 		

MET AR 720: Marketing and Audience Development for the Arts
	This course is designed to provide fundamental background in the theory and principles of arts marketing  and audience development used by nonprofit performing and visual arts organizations. Case analysis will  be employed to review strategies and practices currently used in the cultural sector. Students will be  expected to develop their own marketing plans for an arts organization. Arts Admin students only.  Prerequisite: AR690		

MET AR 722: Educational Programming in Cultural Institutions
	Course will review the history, theory, and practice of educational programming and audience engagement  in both museums and performing arts organizations. Emphasis will be on analysis of program design,  implementation, and evaluation; teacher training, and creation of youth and adult learning programs.		

MET AR 723: Individual Fundraising
	This course will address the full range of issues related to attracting financial support from individuals. Topics will include: raising dollars annually for operations, raising funds through special events (fundraisers), cultivating and soliciting major gifts, and the basics of bequests and estate planning as well as ethical issues and working effectively with donors and volunteers. Course work will include readings, case studies, and guest speakers.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
