MET AD 810: Strategies for Electronic Commerce
	This course focuses on a variety of issues ranging from strategic marketing and the economics of electronic commerce to opportunities and challenges for the government. Students from various industry sectors have an opportunity to specialize according to their area of need. A variety of learning tools such as lectures, case studies, group exercises, and discussions will be used. The course exposes participants to the various strategic implications of electronic commerce.		

MET AD 850: Business Law
	Historical background of the judicial system. The principles of law as they relate to business transactions; law of contracts, sales, agency, and property; legal aspects of business organizations; creation, corporate structure, and dissolution; securities, regulation, antitrust and labor laws.		

MET AD 852: International Market Research
	Examination of major marketing issues affecting companies operating in a global environment.  Students will achieve an understanding of the economic, political, and cultural differences among nations as they affect marketing opportunities and operations.  Develop skills to identify and evaluate international marketing opportunities. 4cr.		

MET AD 854: Marketing Database Analytics
	The course offers an overview of how leading business organizations use transactional (i.e., sales)  and related data to shape their marketing initiatives focused on three core marketing goals: new  customer acquisition, current customer retention and marketing mix optimization. The overall  focus of the course is on showing how the readily available, diverse data types can be translated  into a source of competitively-advantageous, decision-guiding knowledge.  While the focus of the  course is on utilizing, not deriving data analytical outputs, students will be exposed to commonly  used marketing data analytical outcomes (e.g., customer segmentation, customer loyalty/churn  models, propensity to purchase or respond models, etc.). 		

MET AD 855: Strategic Advantage
	--		

MET AD 856: Market and Economic Research and Analysis
	The course is designed to prepare the student to undertake a comprehensive survey of the regional or national economic, social, logistical/infrastructure and attraction market to determine the most appropriate allocation of resources and strategic positioning. Students are exposed to the development of tourism and regional development plan, the basis for segmentation and target markets. The methods and tools of market and economic research are presented and the role/interplay of private, local, national and international intuitions are discussed as they relate to data gathering and plan assessment and implementation.		

MET AD 857: Marketing Strategies
	Strategic and operational marketing issues arising in the firm's operations. Topics include market screening, decisions, entry strategies, product/service development, as well as designing the marketing plan and its implementation. 4 cr.		

MET AD 860: International Advertising
	Concepts, theories and practice of international, multinational and global advertising. A thorough and contemporary study of the impact of globalization on marketing communications and particularly advertising. The environment of worldwide advertising, the advertising mix and worldwide management.		

MET AD 893: Special Topics: Politics, Public Relations and Public Policy: The Boston Harbor Clean Up
	Examines various approaches to developing "high tech" innovation based economies as a route to self sufficiency and growth. Factors studied include both structural reforms in the political, legal and economic areas, and government sponsored initiatives in higher education, basic research, private venture capital, grants to support new product development by promising ventures, and the creation of science and technology parks and "incubators." Students independently research, write, and present studies of the strategies of various countries. This will be augmented by case studies, reading, and guest speakers on strategies being employed in such countries as Taiwan, Thailand, and Brazil.		

MET AD 894: Strategic Advantage
	Strategy concerns the long-term direction, scope and performance of an organization within its specific  context.  While senior managers are normally responsible for strategic planning, the implementation of  strategy is most effective if managers at all levels ensure that their actions, performance goals,  resource applications, etc. are aligned with the efforts of other functions and departments, and with  the major strategic orientation of the firm. This module aims to develop critical understandings and  insights about strategy and strategic management at the business unit level. 		

MET AH 111: Survey of Western Art I
	This course examines the history of western art from ancient times through the Gothic Period in Western Europe.  Through classroom discussions, assigned readings, and, should time allow, museum visits, students will become familiar with the development of a variety of early forms of art.  With each new style or period, we will attempt both to describe the works themselves, and investigate the cultural, social, religious, political and personal contexts that surround the object.  		

MET AH 112: Survey of Western Art II
	Continues MET AH 111, but can be taken separately. Chronological survey of European art from the Renaissance to the present. Emphasis on the relation of art to its historical and cultural context. 		

MET AH 216: Basic Digital Photography
	Extensive practical application in basic aspects of digital photography. This course covers camera operation, image processing in black and white and an introduction to shooting color and color management at the end of the semester and the basics of Photoshop. Students will use their own digital 35mm camera. Single-lens reflex is standard. Cost of materials is approximately $200. 		

MET AH 233: Greece, Gods, and Art
	Painting, sculpture, and architecture in Greece from early times to the end of the Hellenistic period. Interrelationships among art, mythology, religion, athletics, and history. 		

MET AH 234: Rome, Emperors, and Art
	Painting, sculpture, and architecture in Italy and the Roman Empire from the Etruscans to Constantine, the first Christian emperor. Emphasis on art, engineering, politics, religion, and urban life. 		

MET AH 315: History of Photography
	This course offers an introduction to the study of European and American photography from its invention in 1839 to the present.  The goal of this course is to understand the development of photography as an element of material culture and as an art form.  The course will explore how a photograph communicates its visual message and its function as a historical tool.  Lectures will focus on photographic movements, specific photographers and how their work can be viewed as documents, cultural artifacts and as art.  In addition, discussion will incorporate theory and criticism of photography.		

MET AH 336: Medieval Art and Architecture
	This course represents an overview of Medieval Art and Architecture as it developed from late antiquity (ca. 400 A.D.) through the Early Renaissance (ca. 1200 A.D.). We will examine an array of famous Christian as well as secular monuments both in Western Europe and the Byzantine East, taking time as we go to consider each in terms not just of its esthetic features but also its essential political, religious, and geographical contexts. 		

MET AH 342: Masters of the Renaissance: Giotto to Botticelli
	The role of the artist and his work in fourteenth- and fifteenth-century Europe. Emphasis on the rise of humanistic thought and the shift from a God-centered to a man-centered society.		

MET AH 344: Artists, Princes, and Popes
	The artistic masters of the High Renaissance and their patrons, from Leonardo da Vinci to El Greco, with an emphasis on social forces and artistic styles in the sixteenth century. 		

MET AH 364: Architecture and City Planning in Old Boston
	Traces the development of Boston as an urban entity since the seventeenth century. Emphasis on Boston as a model for American architectural history from the colonial to the international styles. Surveys the city's history from English village to modern megalopolis.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
