MET EN 141: Literary Types: Fiction
	Representative English and American novels from the eighteenth century to the present. Required papers. Primarily for students not concentrating in English.		

MET EN 142: Literary Types: Poetry
	Critical reading of representative English and American poems. Primarily for students not concentrating in English.		

MET EN 143: Literary Types: Drama
	Critical reading of representative plays from the ancient Greeks to the present. Primarily for students not concentrating in English.		

MET EN 201: Intermediate Composition
           			Does not give concentration credit. Practice in writing narration, exposition,   argument and persuasion,      the critical essay, and the research paper.   Related readings. Class discussion of papers. Individual      conferences.   Students enroll in specific seminars. Limited enrollment.<br><br> MET EN201 --   Section    Descriptions for Fall 2014<br><br> MET EN201 A1 -- "Multiethnic   American Literature" (Bennett): <br> This course examines the psychological,   political, sociological, and religious concerns of "ethnic" individuals in the   United States in the twenty- and twenty-first centuries and what it means to be   an "American."  We will carefully define "ethnicity" in various literary texts   including a novel, "graphic" books of cartoons, short stories, and poems.  We   will explore works by Native Americans, African Americans, Latin Americans,   Jewish Americans, and Asian Americans.  We will read Art Spiegelman's 'Maus'   (Volumes 1 and 2), John Okada's 'No-No Boy', Junot Díaz's 'Drown', Sherman   Alexie's 'The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven', African American   stories, and Arab American poetry.  The humor in a number of these texts   counters the pain described by many of the writers. <br><br> MET EN201 C1 --   "Technology, Ideology and Society" (Grabianowski): <br> Is it possible to create   a sustainable and livable world where equality and human rights are respected?   What, if any, roles do science and technology play in creating such a world?  In   this section of English 201, we will first consider how 19th and 20th century   writers like Nathaniel Hawthorne, Walt Whitman and Aldo Leopold have addressed   the practical and ethical issues that arise out of the intersection of   technology, nature and society. We will then explore through topics like   sustainable business models, ecological economics, big data, agribusiness and   genetics how contemporary scientists, technology industry leaders, and writers   like Jacob Bronowski, Bill Joy, Michael Pollan and Herman Daly continue to   grapple with the rapid transformation of our technological existence. <br><br>  MET EN201 D1 -- "The Lost Generation" (Jackson):<br> This class explores the   writers of the Lost Generation, American expatriates in Europe in the 1920's and   1930's. These include some of the most important and most popular of all   American writers. The readings include Ezra Pound, Gertrude Stein, T. S. Eliot's   The Waste Land, Ernest Hemingway's The Sun Also Rises, and F. Scott Fitzgerald's   Tender Is the Night. Our research will examine these works in the contexts of  World War I, growing  social and political revolutions, changes in the roles of  men and women, the  psychologies of both Freud and "shell-shock," contrasts  between Europe and  America, the economics of a stock market boom and the Great  Depression, and the  challenges of Modernism in art. <br><br>		

MET EN 202: Introduction to Creative Writing
	Designed mainly for those with little or no experience in creative writing. An introduction to writing in various genres: poetry, fiction, and plays. Students' works discussed in class. Limited enrollment. 		

MET EN 220: Proseminar: Literacy Study
	Fundamentals of literary analysis and interpretation. Intensive study of selected literary texts. Frequent papers. Limited class size. 4 cr		

MET EN 305: Advanced Writing of Fiction
	Competitive admission, limited enrollment. Note: Obtain syllabus at Creative Writing Program Office (236 Bay State Rd.) before end of fall semester. Intensive study of American writers and of writing by participants. Students write and present at least one story or chapter and read writings of others. 		

MET EN 322: Survey of British Literature I
	Prereq: MET HU 221.  British literature from its beginnings to the Restoration.  		

MET EN 323: Survey of British Literature II
           			British literature from the Restoration to the end of the nineteenth century.		

MET EN 355: Modern Drama
	A century's transformations of drama and stage. Reading and discussion of plays from early realism and expressionism to the theatre of the absurd and present trends: Ibsen, Strindberg, Chekhov, Shaw, Synge, Pirandello, Brecht, Sartre, Ionesco, Beckett, Genet, Pinter, and others.		

MET EN 356: Modern Drama II
	Modern to contemporary drama since about 1950. Beckett, Genet, Osborne, Wesker, Pinter, Arden, Stoppard, Durrenmatt, Grass, Weiss, Handke, Albee, Miller, Williams, Shepard, and others. Related readings in predecessors, such as Kleist and Artaud, and in less well known contemporaries.		

MET EN 363: Shakespeare I
	Six plays chosen from the following: Richard II, Romeo and Juliet, Henry IV (Part 1), Troilus and Cressida, As You Like It, Hamlet, Othello, Antony and Cleopatra, and The Winter's Tale.		

MET EN 364: Shakespeare II
	Six plays chosen from the following: Richard III, A Midsummer Night's Dream, Much Ado About Nothing, Measure for Measure, Twelfth Night, Julius Caesar, King Lear, Macbeth, Coriolanus, and The Tempest. 		

MET EN 373: Detective Fiction
	Origins and development of the detective and crime genres in England and America, including works of Collins, Poe, Dickens, Doyle, Christie, Sayers, and Chandler, among others. 		

MET EN 529: The Romantic Age: English Literature in the Age of Revolution
	Blake, Wordsworth, and Coleridge. Emphasis on readings, but the course deals with romanticism both as an historical movement and as a cultural category significantly connected to modernism. 		

MET EN 535: Twentieth-Century British and Irish Poetry
	Close reading of balladic, lyric, and longer poems by Hardy, Yeats, Lawrence, Auden, Rosenberg, Mew, Loy, MacDiarmid, Gurney, Douglas, Larkin, Hill, Harrison, Prynne, others. Poets' essays and opposed schools and approaches. Reference to other arts, and times of political tragedy.		

MET EN 536: Twentieth-Century American Poetry
	Study of five or six poets from the following: Pound, Eliot, Stevens, Williams, Moore, Frost, Lowell, Bishop, Berryman, Ammons, Ashbery, Plath, Ginsberg, Merrill.		

MET EN 543: The Nineteenth-Century English Novel
	The novel from Scott to Hardy. Among the works to be discussed: Scott's Waverley, Austen's Emma, Dickens's Bleak House, Eliot's Middlemarch, Brontë's Wuthering Heights, and Hardy's Jude the Obscure.		

MET EN 544: The Modern British Novel
	Conrad, Woolf, Lawrence, Ford, Forster, Beckett, and other novelists of the period 1895-1956. 		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
