MET SO 325: Sociology of Sports
	Sociological theory and research techniques applied to sports. Emphasis on the study of sports in their social contexts as they reflect and reinforce economic, political, and cultural patterns of society. 		

MET SO 335: Technology, Environment, and Society
	Relationship between technology, environment, and social life. Impact of actual cases of technological development and environmental degradation. Emergence of social problems, and strategies for their solution. 		

MET SO 344: Drugs and Society
           			Introduction to the sociology of a wide range of legal and illicit drugs. Examines social definitions of drugs and conditions of their use. Considers deviant drug use and effects of social control on definitions and use.		

MET SO 510: Rehabilitation and Re-Integration
	Community re-integration following imprisonment has long been recognized as a significant problem.  Longer sentences and rapid changes have created new problems for both returning inmates and those  who provide services both inside and outside the criminal justice system. This course will examine  rehabilitation philosophy in theory and practice. Lectures and seminars will address such issues as: the  special problems in providing rehabilitation and education in the correctional system, the effect of  inmate subculture on rehabilitation, and balancing demands for custody and rehabilitation. 		

MET SO 511: Understanding Moral Panics
	Introduces students to the concept of Moral Panics. Moral panics are a social phenomenon  triggered by an incident or series of incidents that appear to threaten a society's culture or way of life.  Policymakers, legislators, and prosecutors react to these fears despite a trivial or non-existent threat. In  this course we analyze in detail five moral panics to advance our understanding of the theoretical  framework and the media's role in their construction.		

MET SO 533: Sociology of Medicine
		Research and substantive findings in the sociology and social psychology of health, disease, and medical practice; particular reference to institutional provision for health. 		

MET UA 301: Introduction to Urban Affairs
	This course takes an interdisciplinary approach to urban affairs and urban problems, including an overview of prominent theories about the nature and causes of urban problems. We will examine the metropolitan area as a complex system with interdependent institutions and problems and consider present as well as future urban policy options in areas such as housing, transportation, crime, education, environment and economic development. 		

MET UA 403: Boston Urban Seminar
	An opportunity to explore general issues of urban affairs and planning in seminar. Theme changes, but each seminar focuses on Boston. Prominent scholars and professionals active in city and regional issues are invited to participate. 		

MET UA 409: Urban Affairs Senior Project
	Required of undergraduate urban affairs majors. Students complete a senior project in their field of interest. Individual faculty supervision arranged by the department; project topic and approach arranged between student and advisor.		

MET UA 503: Housing and Community Development
	Surveys the factors affecting supply and price of urban housing. Examines federal, state, and municipal programs, as well as future policy options, from the standpoint of housing quality and community development goals. Analysis of selected international comparative experience. 		

MET UA 505: Urban Management
	Examination of selected cases in municipal and public management. Organization, financial management, personnel relations, program planning and budgeting, and issues of public and private sector relations. The administration of municipal functions, including health, police, schools, and housing. 		

MET UA 507: Law and Justice in the City
	Operation of the criminal justice system in the urban setting. Special attention is paid to the problems of safeguarding individual rights. Examines relationship between social and economic structure of cities and workings of the system of justice.		

MET UA 508: Real Estate Development
	Various factors affecting location, construction, financing, and marketing of real estate in metropolitan areas. Studies the relationship of public policy to the activities of the private sector, market analysis techniques, evaluation of development projects, and problems of real estate investment. 		

MET UA 509: Urban and Public Finance and Budgeting
	Economic, social, and political aspects of state and local government finances. Theory of public finance; revenues, expenditures, and survey of budgetary processes. Planning techniques in capital budgeting and other finance activities. Selected issues: debt, user fees, property taxes, and incentives. 		

MET UA 510: Selected Topics in Urban Affairs
	UA510 is the designation for "Special Topics in Planning". The subject matter for UA510 courses  changes from semester to semester, and more than one UA510 can be offered in a given semester. <br><br> Fall 2014 - MET UA510 B1 - "History of Metropolitan Boston" <br> This course provides an historical overview of Boston's metropolitan development, from the earliest country estates to suburban sprawl and the smart growth movement. The course is based upon the recent book The Hub's Metropolis: Greater Boston's Development from Railroad Suburbs to Smart Growth (The MIT Press, 2013). It provides historical context for understanding the region's contemporary planning efforts that are addressing the challenges of low-density sprawl, climate change, and the global information age economy. Affordable Housing Finance highlights how successful  developers integrate expertise in real estate development, public policy expertise, and political acumen  to produce high quality affordable housing and community revitalization. Key affordable housing  policies and tools are discussed, with a primary focus on financing and community development  strategies. The course addresses the issues of developing affordable housing and creative practices  used to breakdown regulatory and other barriers. Guests include affordable housing practitioners and  financiers to discuss process and challenges in the field. <br><br> Fall 2014 - MET UA510 C1 - "International Approaches to Urban Sustainability" <br> This course offers a comprehensive, yet critical understanding of the competing theories and practices of sustainable development as applied in cities. Topics include land use, transportation, brownfields redevelopment, community land trusts, green architecture, renewable energy, food systems, air and water pollution, and waste recycling. Furthermore, through a comparative study of sustainable practices in cities, students learn about the constraints and opportunities different cities confront. Looking at cities through a "sustainability" lens promotes understanding of multiple interrelated issues and the need for collaboration to achieve sustainability. The approach is interdisciplinary.		

MET UA 515: History and Theory of Urban Planning
	History, concepts, and methods of contemporary urban and regional planning practice. Governmental, nonprofit, and private settings of professional planning; plans, research, and policy development; uses and implementation of planning. Political analysis of planning issues, such as comprehensiveness, public interest, advocacy, negotiation, and future orientation. Case materials drawn from redevelopment, growth management, land use conflicts, and service delivery. 		

MET UA 521: Environmental Law
	Principles and status of environmental law for pollution control and environmental improvement. Impact statements, resource conservation and protection, growth management. Emphasis on air, water, land, and hazardous waste issues. Environmental, economic, and other policy relationships. Case materials and court decisions. 		

MET UA 546: Places of Memory: Historic Preservation Theory and Practice
	Covers key aspects of the history, theory, and practice of historic preservation. Preservation will be  discussed in the context of cultural history and the changing relationship between existing buildings  and landscapes and attitudes toward history, memory, invented tradition, and place.		

MET UA 550: Bike Planning and Advocacy
	This course will introduce students to the wide range of issues involved in building the infrastructure  and facilitating the culture change to make bicycling for fun, fitness, and, most especially, a serious  mode of transportation across the USA.  The course will be structured in four parts.  Part I will focus on  defining the problem and the opportunity.  Part II will cover strategies to support and encourage  bicycling.  Part III will discuss how to build both political and public support for bicycling.  Part IV will  allow students to synthesize the course concepts into a final bicycle planning or advocacy project. 		

MET UA 553: Documenting Historic Buildings and Landscapes
	Seminar in architectural and landscape recording techniques involving readings, fieldwork, and writing; projects include research on individual buildings as well as groups of resources. Emphasis on research design and evaluation of evidence.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
