MET PH 150: Introduction to Ethics
	Who ought we to be, what ought we to do, what ought we to strive for? Examination of our obligations to ourselves, to other humans, and to the natural world in light of ethical theory and contemporary problems. Readings from a wide range of texts in philosophical ethics. 		

MET PH 155: Politics and Philosophy
	A study of the theoretical foundations of modern industrial democracy, with special attention paid to the Enlightenment.  Readings from Machiavelli, Locke, Rousseau, Madison and Toqueville. 4cr.		

MET PH 160: Reasoning and Argumentation
	A systematic study of the principles of both deductive and informal reasoning, with an emphasis on reasoning and argumentation in ordinary discourse. 		

MET PH 248: Existentialism
	Analysis of existentialism as a movement or orientation in contemporary philosophy.  Topics include contingency and the grounds for belief and value; depth, superficiality, and the intense life; commitment and open-mindedness; tragedy and the healthy self; boredom, anxiety, and adventure; and existentialism as a philosophy of the possible.		

MET PH 265: Minds and Machines
	An examination of the efforts of artificial intelligence to model the human mind and explain human thought by means of suitably programmed computers. Attention is given to the historical and mathematical origins of such efforts, as well as the main psychological and philosophical assumptions on which they depend. 		

MET PH 270: Philosophy of Science
	Main features of the scientific enterprise will be illustrated by examples in the study of physics, biology, and mind: the aims of scientific activities, the nature of scientific understanding and procedures, the structure and interpretation of scientific theories, and the development of science. 		

MET PH 300: History of Ancient Philosophy
	Classical Greek philosophy from the pre-Socratics through Plato and Aristotle.		

MET PH 310: History of Modern Philosophy
	Main currents of modern philosophical thought from Descartes through Kant.  		

MET PO 241: Introduction to Public Policy
	Undergraduate core course. Analysis of several issue areas: civil rights, school desegregation, welfare and social policy, education and urban housing, energy and the environment. Characteristics of policy systems in each issue area are analyzed to identify factors which may affect the content and implementation of public policies.		

MET PS 101: General Psychology
	Basic introduction to the study of psychology as a behavioral science. Emphasis on learning, motivation, perception, personality, and social psychology. 		

MET PS 221: Psychology of Human Sexuality
           			The course provides a psychological framework for reviewing the science of human sexuality. Emphasis is placed on not only what has been learned, but how it has been studied. The clinical, developmental, personality, social psychology, and neuropsychological theory and research of human sexuality are presented. Specific topics include sexual dysfunctions and sex therapy, bio-social views on sexual differentiation, alternative sexual orientations, and attraction to love.		

MET PS 234: Psychology of Learning
           			Theory and techniques in learning and their applications in different settings. Explores problem solving, memory, reward and punishment, and reinforcement schedules in animals, normal classrooms, and remediational settings. 		

MET PS 241: Developmental Psychology
           			Critical and technical review of theories on intellectual and social development of infants and children. Emphasis is on the role of early experiences and biological factors in the later formation of personality and intellectual motivational behaviors. Discusses the work of Erikson, Piaget, and Freud. 		

MET PS 251: Psychology of Personality
           			Provides a conceptual framework for understanding the development, organization, and change of the normal individual according to such diverse theoretical positions as the psychoanalytic, humanistic, and social learning schools. 		

MET PS 253: Psychology of Dreams
           			Covers a wide range of theoretical and empirical studies on dreams; presents a review of the major schools of thought regarding the origin, content, and purpose of dreams; topics include dream interpretation, the physiology of sleep and dreams, daydreams, and nightmares. Note: This course cannot be used as one of the principal courses required for the CAS psychology major or minor.		

MET PS 261: Social Psychology
           			Manner in which the behavior, feelings, and thoughts of one individual are influenced and determined by the behavior and/or characteristics of others. Attraction, attitudes, aggression, person perception, and groups. Readings cover theories, experimental research, and application. 		

MET PS 273: Introduction to Clinical Psychology
           			An overview of the field of clinical psychology as applied to children, adolescents, and adults.  Theoretical, applied, and research topics include: neurobiology, psychopharmacology, individual and group psychotherapy, testing and assessment, family systems therapy.  		

MET PS 275: Principles of Counseling and Motivational Interviewing
           			Basic theories of counseling and motivational interviewing are compared and contrasted. Emphasis is placed on investigating the various contexts in which these theories and techniques are particularly applicable (e.g. , sports psychology, weight loss, smoking cessation, crises management, etc.) 		

MET PS 295: Psychology and Film: Images of Madness
           			Classic feature films (1920's to the present) portraying mental illness are considered from both cinematic and psychosocial perspectives. The public image of madness on the big screen is related to clinical concepts and practices current during the period of the film.		

MET PS 320: Play and Art Therapy
           			Considers the psychological roots of play and creative processes as they relate to child and adult therapy. Specific schools of play and art therapy are considered. Emphasis is on psychological processes and direct application of therapies. Note: This course cannot be used as one of the principal courses required for the CAS psychology major or minor.		

