MET UA 703: Urban Research Methods
	Examines research techniques useful for urban policy research. Emphasis on survey research techniques, including sampling, survey organization, questionnaire development, and interviewing. Participant observation techniques. Field data collection and analysis. 		

MET UA 704: Urban Economic Issues and Analysis
	Basic economic concepts and techniques of analysis necessary for urban public policy development. Analysis of the economic bases of selected current urban problems and evaluation of several policy solutions to common urban problems.		

MET UA 715: Planning Law
	In this course we will read and analyze the important U.S. Supreme Court and state court decisions that  have shaped and continue to influence zoning, planning, and other land use controls throughout the  country. We will see the interaction between court decisions and land use controls and how each has  evolved to meet changing conditions and goals. We will also review the structure of the U.S. legal  system and how to brief court decisions and create a framework for understanding constitutional  requirements on eminent domain, due process, and equal protection from a planner's perspective. 		

MET UA 747: Building Conservation
	Theory and practicalities involved in conservation of historic buildings. This course will cover the history and theory of building conservation architectural investigations of building, including documentary, constructional, and finish materials to materials for conservation.		

MET UA 751: Urban Planning and Decision Theory
	The role and process of planning in terms of theory and historical development. Tradition of rational/comprehensive and incremental decision theory: roles and functions, organization, participation, political relationships, and time and information use. Relationships between planning, ideology, ethics, social change, and implementation. 		

MET UA 755: Colloquium in Preservation Planning
	A comprehensive preservation planning and advocacy course in which students in the Preservation Studies Program prepare a planning document under contract with a community.		

MET UA 759: Financing Historic Preservation
	This course will focus on how to determine the value and potential income of a property, produce a feasibility analysis, and secure financing for preservation projects.		

MET UA 761: Planning Thesis
		Topic must be approved by designated instructor or advisor. For M.C.P. students only. Application of program coursework and independent research to a selected topic individually arranged.		

MET UA 801: Graduate Directed Study in Urban Affairs and Planning
	Limited to a maximum of 8 credits toward the degree requirements. Approval by program director required prior to registration. Study of urban and public affairs and planning individually arranged between student and instructor to provide training opportunities not available elsewhere.		

MET UA 802: Graduate Directed Study in Urban Affairs and Planning
	Limited to a maximum of 8 credits toward the degree requirements. Approval by program director required prior to registration. Study of urban and public affairs and planning individually arranged between student and instructor to provide training opportunities not available elsewhere.		

MET UA 804: Supervised Fieldwork
	Limited to a maximum of four credits toward the degree requirements. Approval by program director required prior to registration. Students spend a minimum of 12 hours working with public agencies, community groups, or private organizations. Seminar participation. 		

MET UA 805: The Boston Urban Symposium
	The Boston based Urban Symposium will be a thematic Spring symposium, required for students in the Urban Affairs and City Planning programs. The class meetings will weave together the interdisciplinary nature of the urban planning and city planning professions. While the symposium topics will change each spring, professionals and industry leaders will be invited to lecture on their experiences, contemporary challenges to the professions, and major problems confronting the public and private sectors. Recognizing the unique and diverse characteristics of the Boston urban environment, the symposium themes will be drawn from topical issues that involve the greater Boston metropolitan area. The course features a combination of guest speakers and academic case studies that emphasize the interdisciplinary nature of urban planning. 		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
