MET AD 667: Innovation, Global Competitiveness, and National Economic Development
	Examines various approaches to developing high tech innovation based economies as a route to self sufficiency and growth. Factors studied include both structural reforms in the political, legal and economic areas, and government sponsored initiatives in higher education, basic research, private venture capital, grants to support new product development by promising ventures, and the creation of science and technology parks and incubators. Students independently research, write, and present studies of the strategies of various countries. This will be augmented by case studies, reading, and guest speakers on strategies being employed in such countries as Taiwan, Thailand, and Brazil.		

MET AD 670: Creative Multimedia: Tools, Design, and Application
           			Introduces creative aspects of Web design using application programs such as Flash and Rixio/Adobe Multimedia. Students will have an opportunity to develop applications that integrate text content with video, digital photographs, computer animation, and computer graphics for website enhancement. This course will also focus on the exploration of a range of issues such as principles of good Web design and use of multimedia/Flash in major business applications. Students will create projects that integrate digital media, digital sound, and computer animation for e-learning, e-commerce, and related application areas.		

MET AD 671: Business Analytics Foundations
	Students will learn how to use data effectively to drive rapid, precise, and profitable analytics-based  decisions. The framework of using interlinked data-inputs, analytics models, and decision-support  tools will be applied within a proprietary business analytics shell and demonstrated with examples  from different functional areas of the enterprise.		

MET AD 673: Corporate and Social Responsibility
	The course provides an introduction to the main concepts of Global Responsibility and its impact  on management. It addresses many issues surrounding what are commonly referred to as  Corporate and Social Responsibility as well as the issues of related sustainability. The course  covers topics such as: Marketing, Finance, ethics, Risk Assessment, Communication and Strategy.  The course is designed to help understand why corporate social responsibility is important in the  public and private sectors and enable students to examine how the organizational can be  impacted by CSR.		

MET AD 680: Global Supply Chains
	This course analyzes the managerial activities required to support manufacturing and service  industry international strategies to assure that that products/services are delivered/provided in  the quality and timely manner expected through the use of global supply chains, outsourcing  relationships and multi-country operations. The course focuses on contemporary strategic issues  that affect both large and small corporations and includes: the strategic role of the internet,  international trade and logistics, cross cultural teaming, supply chain dynamics, information  management, inventory scheduling and control, international coordination and transportation and  customer service. 4cr.       		

MET AD 682: Risk Assessment and Security Management
MET AD 683: Infrastructure and Logistical Planning for Tourism Development
	The course provides an in depth examination of the role of infrastructure and logistics in economic and tourism development. Students are exposed to national and international examples of infrastructure and logistics models as they related to the successful, or unsuccessful, attempts to initiate economic/tourism development, growth and/or maintenance. The problems and challenges facing private firms and governments as they attempt to integrate economic development and growth into an existing culture and environment are presented. The role of national, regional and local infrastructures is discussed as they relate to an intergraded economic development plan. The use, types and importance of infrastructure is presented, as are methods to develop models to assess needs and resource allocation.		

MET AD 700: Strategic Management in Health Care Services
	This course will look at the fundamental problems and issues facing providers of health care in the United States.  Major topics will include: Managed Care, Capitation, Medicare &amp; Medicaid reimbursement, consolidation &amp; market share strategy, and managing quality in a tight margin business.		

MET AD 709: Case Studies in Current Corporate Financial Topics
           			Finance forecasting and planning; capital budgeting, cost of capital, dividend policy, rate of return, and financial aspects of growth. Readings and extensive use of case studies. 		

MET AD 711: Leadership and Strategy
	This course focuses on the role of the leadership of a corporation in determining and implementing the corporation?s strategy. Through the analysis and the discussion in class of a number of cases, the leadership styles, approaches and methods will be studied, as well as the implications for the strategies of the corporations concerned, and the resulting successes or failures.   		

MET AD 712: Financial Markets and Institutions
	Investigation and analysis of organization, structure, and performance of U.S. money and capital markets, and institutions. Examines regulation of the financial industry and the role of financial instruments. 		

MET AD 713: Derivative Securities and Markets
           			Provides an overview of operation, mechanics, and structure of the derivative markets and covers the concepts of options and futures pricing, arbitrage, and risk management. Emphasizes the theory of risk management and hedging opportunities offered by derivative securities. 		

MET AD 714: Mergers and Acquisitions
	This course examines the process by which takeovers and other corporate control transactions take place. Of particular interest will be the defensive measures by management against hostile bids, buyout transactions, the relation of takeovers to capital structure changes, and the insider trading in takeover contests. 		

MET AD 715: Quantitative and Qualitative Decision-Making
	Explores decision making and policy formulation in organizations. Includes goal setting and the planning process, rational models of decision making, evaluation of alternatives, prediction of outcomes, cost-benefit analysis, decision trees, uncertainty and risk assessment, and procedures for evaluation of outcomes. 		

MET AD 716: Managing Financial Institutions
           			Course acquaints the student with the role of financial management in the new broad financial service industry. Topics include the changing legal/regulatory environment in which financial institutions operate liquidity and reserve positions, assist-liability management marketing issues as well as the tools necessary for managing financial institutions. 		

MET AD 717: Investment Analysis and Portfolio Management
           			Mechanics of securities markets, types of available investments, and an introduction to determination of securities values. Problems of investment policy are approached through studies of portfolio selection methods and the valuation of special classes of securities (e.g., growth stocks).		

MET AD 718: Overview of Mutual Funds Industry
           			Provides a comprehensive review of the operations of the mutual funds industry. The organization and management of a mutual funds firm, back office operations, accounting procedures and marketing processes are covered in depth. The course provides a historical context of mutual funds, their development and role of mutual funds in private, corporate and retirement accounts. 		

MET AD 720: Organizational Communication
	Theory and techniques for effective verbal and nonverbal communication in professional environments. Emphasis on application of communication theory in practical assignments and critique of student work.		

MET AD 722: Legal and Regulatory Issues in the Financial Industry
	A review of the legal and regulatory issues that govern the financial industry. The course reviews SEC regulations as well as the financial legal environments that affect the financial system, the operations of financial firms and protect shareholders and company employees. The course provides a historical context in which the legal and regulatory systems have evolved and relates that history to today's complex financial environment.		

MET AD 725: Negotiations and Organizational Conflict Resolution
	A communications skills course designed to better understand the nature of conflict and its resolution through persuasion, collaboration, and negotiation. Students will learn theories of interpersonal and organizational conflict and its resolution as applied to personal, corporate, historical, and political contexts. Students will assess their own styles, skills, and values, and develop techniques to better resolve disputes, achieve objectives, and exert influence. 		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
