MET HI 102: The History of Western Civilization II
	A survey of Western society from the French Revolution through World War II, including the Industrial Revolution, nineteenth-century nationalism and imperialism, the rise of working-class movements, international rivalries, and ideological conflict in the twentieth century. 		

MET HI 151: American History, 1607-1865
	Growth of the United States from the colonial wars to the end of the Civil War. Explores British colonial policy, the Revolution, and the Constitution. Analyzes Federalism, Jeffersonian revolution, and westward expansion. Examines sectionalism, slavery, and war. 		

MET HI 152: American History, 1865- Present
	Continues MET HI 151. Analyzes the Reconstruction; economic expansion; problems of transportation, business, agriculture, labor, and finance; the populist movement; the place of the United States among nations; reform legislation; the United States in World War I; the New Deal; and World War II and after. 		

MET HI 300: The American Immigrant Experience
	Immigration has made and is remaking America. All Americans, or their ancestors, were at one time immigrants. This course provides a historical survey of this immigration. The first half of the course explores eighteenth- and nineteenth-century immigration movements; the second half focuses on the twentieth century. 		

MET HI 305: Pivotal Trials in Massachusetts History
	This course examines the historical and social context of landmark judicial trials in Massachusetts from the seventeenth through the twentieth centuries. The background, issues, and outcome of each trial is observed within itself and in relation to the larger context in which it occurred. Certain legal strategies will be discussed, as well as the fairness or unfairness of the outcome of each trial and its effect on the society as a whole. 		

MET HI 317: Europe in World Politics, 1870-Present
	Analysis of the crucial role played by the nations of Europe in the great international developments of the past century. Special attention to the impact of domestic social, economic, and political conflicts on the formulation of foreign policy. 		

MET HI 330: History of the Middle East I
	Middle East history, culture and civilizations. From the Seventh to the beginning of Twentieth Century;  Ancient civilizations, advent of Abrahamic faith systems, surge and expansion of Arab-Muslim Societies,  Crusaders, Persian and Turkic people, Colonialism and National states. What we learn from yesterday to  understand today.  		

MET HI 332: Recent and Contemporary History of Europe
	Using historical studies, fiction, and film, this course explores the major twentieth-century European political struggles from the perspective of ordinary citizens. Topics include the cultural impact of mass warfare, the invasion of ideology in private life, sexual politics, and the drive for independence of the colonized peoples. The course stresses the building of writing and discussion skills with the chance to rewrite and to debate interpretations of events and trends with classmates. 		

MET HI 333: History of the Middle East II
	Middle East history and society from World War I to the present. Emphasis on the collapse of the  Ottoman Empire, colonial rule in the Arab world, formation of the nation states, rise of nationalism,  struggle for independence, discovery of oil, modernization, the Arab and Israeli conflict,  revolution,  reemergence of Islam as a political ideology, the Gulf War and United States involvement, Arab spring and  concept of democracy. 		

MET HI 342: History of America at War
	This course surveys the history of America at war from pre-conquest Native American warfare to  modern times. It covers colonial-era traditions, the Revolutionary War, 19th century wars with Britain,  Mexico, and Spain, the Civil War, the two World Wars, Korea, Vietnam, and modern wars in the Greater  Middle East. Attention is paid to varying military traditions, military culture and capabilities, from  backwoods skirmishing to set-piece battles, to total war on a global scale, to today?s fighting against  irregular enemies employing evolving combat doctrines and assets. Documentary and other films will  enhance class discussion of the evolution of American warfare and of Americans at war.		

MET HI 355: Modern China
	Exploration of twentieth-century China. Emphasis on the conditions inside and outside China that led to the revolution and to the establishment of the present state. The Cultural Revolution and its effect on present-day China.		

MET HI 363: Twentieth-Century United States, 1901-41
	Impact of industrialization; progressive impulse and politics; American imperialism; World War I; reaction and social revolt; technology, prosperity, and fundamentalism; the Great Depression; Roosevelt, the New Deal, and welfare capitalism; and politics and foreign policy. 		

MET HI 364: Twentieth-Century United States, 1941-Present
	The origins and consequences of World War II; the Truman administration and the Fair Deal; the origins of the cold war; international and domestic issues and conflicts from the 1950s to the 1980s.		

MET HI 371: History of African Americans
	Historical patterns of racial relations and participation of African Americans in American social, economic, political, and cultural life. Major historical events and institutions: the slave system, Civil War and Reconstruction, industrialization, urbanization, the New Deal, and the civil rights movement. 		

MET HI 373: History of Boston
	The foundations, development, and "fate" of Boston since the colonial period. Explores the architecture, geography, social structure, and economic development of the city, as well as political changes.		

MET HI 374: Women in American History
	American women's history from the time of European settlement to the 1980s. Women's changing patterns of family life, paid and unpaid work, political and social involvement, and attempts to change the shape of their world. The goals of the course are to acquaint students with the significant concepts and events in women's history and, through class discussions, to engage students in ongoing debates about their meanings. 		

MET HI 395: Film and History
	This course compares and contrasts the ways that historians work in varied media:  books, essays, feature films, and documentary films. The class pursues the histories of past events and periods in American history, analyzing how writers and film-makers develop a narrative approach to events, time periods, or individuals' lives. The course also looks not only at history in film but also at the history of film and its development as an artistic and cultural expression during the twentieth century. The class considers the ways that films are themselves cultural artifacts of the time in which they were produced: what movies tell us about American values, myths, and character at a particular point in time and how the requirements of a particular film genre affect the cultural information it presents.		

MET HI 425: Women in European History
	This course provides an introduction to the role of women in European history. Readings and discussion focus broadly on changing attitudes, expectations, and opportunities for women by exploring such topics as convent life, working conditions, charity, the witch craze, and political and religious upheaval. It also examines the challenge of writing women back into history and looks at the lives and strategies of individual women. 		

MET HI 440: Twentieth-Century American Social History
	Significant themes in American social history in the twentieth century, including radical and protest movements, mass media, ethnic movements and conflict, urban disorders, and attitudes. Basic themes vary with the instructor and semester. 		

MET HI 450: American Popular Culture: Humor and History
	The increase in scholarly and popular interest in humor during the past several decades demonstrates a heightened awareness of the significance of humor in American culture. This course analyzes the historical and sociological patterns of humor and their relation to social change and conflict in twentieth-century America. Includes readings from the social sciences and humanities and a series of films.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
