GMS BT 406: Cytogenetics
	Prereq: one semester of biology, BT 110 (Intro Biomed Lab Sci), and BT 413 (Mol Bio) or BT 436   (Genetics), or consent of program director. Advanced course designed for those considering a clinical or   research career in human genetics with an emphasis is on clinical cytogenetics (chromosome testing).   The course covers types of chromosome abnormalities, methodology, nomenclature and clinical   significance in pregnancy, birth defects, and cancer. Laboratory work includes basic blood culture,   chromosome preparation, banding, identification and karyotyping. The course also provides an   updated review of latest cytogenetic methodology and applications, such as FISH, comparative genomic   hybridization (CGH) and array CGH lab. Â&nbsp;Also offered at graduate level with consent of program   director. Laboratory course.		

GMS BT 407: Molecular Genetics
	Prereq: BT 110 (Intro Biomed Lab Sci), BT 413 (Mol Bio), BT 436 (Genetics) or consent of program   director. Advanced course designed for those considering a clinical or research career in human   genetics. Emphasis is on clinical molecular genetics (DNA testing). The course covers types of genetic   abnormalities, methodology, nomenclature and clinical significance in pregnancy, birth defects, and   cancer. Laboratory work includes basic blood extraction, DNA preparation, gel electrophoresis, capillary   electrophoresis, sequencing, identification and karyotyping. The course also provides an updated   review of latest molecular genetic methodology and applications, such as copy number analysis, chip   based sequencing and next generation sequencing. Â&nbsp;Laboratory course.		

GMS BT 408: Immunology
	Prereq: BT 342 (Cell Bio) and BT 413 (Mol Bio) or consent of program director. Cell culture techniques   and knowledge of genetics is recommended. This course emphasizes the molecular and cellular   interactions involved in immune response. Topics covered include innate immunity, antibody structure   and function; applications of monoclonal antibodies in biotechnology and medicine; gene   rearrangements in Band T cells; cellular cooperation and the role of MHC; tolerance; and   immunopathology (hypersensitivity, autoimmunity, transplantation, AIDS, cancer immunity and   immunotherapy). Lab techniques include Flow Cytometry (FACs), ELISA, cell proliferation and death,   and assays of immune function. 		

GMS BT 410: Essential Methods in Biotechnology
	This course is an integrated course conveying a framework of fundamental introductory concepts of   biochemistry, molecular biology, and cell biology, along with essential laboratory methods that are   commonly used by researchers in these areas and by the biotechnology industry. The overall goal of the   course is to train students for jobs in industry, academia, and the health care sector that apply or require   knowledge of these concepts and methods.  *Restricted registration to BioScience Academy students. 		

GMS BT 411: Protein Purification and Analysis
	Prereq: BT 110 (Intro Biomed Lab Sci) and BT 208 (Ess. Math for Biotech). Biochemistry and elementary   physics are recommended. Familiarizes students with the theory and application of many biochemical   techniques involved in protein purification and characterization, such as chromatography (ion   exchange, gel permeation, hydrophobic affinity), electrophoresis and blotting techniques. Students   learn to think critically about methodology, design a purification scheme, scale it up, and troubleshoot   an existing plan. Special problems with recombinant proteins are also covered. The laboratory   component includes a wide variety of conventional methods for protein isolation, purification, and   characterization. Laboratory course.		

GMS BT 413: Techniques in Molecular Biology
	Prereq: one semester of biology, two semesters of chemistry and  BT 110 (Intro Biomed Lab Sci). The   course is comprised of a lecture part focusing on the structure, function, and analysis of DNA and RNA   and a laboratory component in which students isolate, analyze, and manipulate DNA and RNA in the   test tube. Experiments include the isolation of genomic DNA and RNA, followed by their analysis   through gel electrophoresis, spectrophotometry, PCR, and blotting techniques. Students are introduced   to recombinant DNA technology through bacterial transformation, plasmid preps, mapping of plasmids   by restriction digests, and purification of recombinant protein from bacteria by column   chromatography. The course also includes a bioinformatics component in which students use a web   platform to access various genetic databases, retrieve genetic sequence information and analyze the   sequences using free software for translation and restriction enzyme mapping. Laboratory course. 		

GMS BT 426: Medical Microbiology
	Prereq: one semester of biology and two semesters of chemistry. Provides the student with an   understanding of clinically important microorganisms. Students become familiar with the classification,   pathogenicity, identification, and prevention and treatment of diseases caused by bacteria, fungi, and   parasites as well as the workings of a modern clinical microbiology laboratory. Laboratory course.		

GMS BT 436: Human Genetics
	Prereq: one semester of biology and two semesters of chemistry, BT 342 (Cell Bio) or BT 413 (Mol Bio).   This course focuses on human genetics with a strong emphasis on the relationship between DNA   structure, disease manifestation, and inheritance. The course reviews the molecular mechanisms   underlying the flow of information within a cell from DNA to protein, population genetics, genetics of   immunity and cancer, reproductive technologies, epigenetics, genomics and cancer stem cells.  The   class includes lectures and student presentations.		

GMS BT 440: Genetics, Ethics, and the Law
	This online class explores the newest information and legal and bioethical implications in human genetics,   using audio-visuals, actual cases, discussions and lecture. Topics include: new reproductive techniques,   genetic diseases, prenatal testing and genetic testing, DNA fingerprinting, cloning, and DNA technology.   Online only.		

GMS BT 442: Issues in Assisted Reproduction
	This course addresses the legal, ethical and scientific aspects of Assisted Reproduction (also called  ART-Assisted Reproductive Techniques). The science of treating infertility has expanded amazingly in  the last 15 years, from the use of sperm donors to selling eggs on the internet. Assisted Reproductive  techniques are constantly changing and have given rise to many legal cases and ethical questions,  which this course will. This course closely examines these legal and ethical questions.		

GMS BT 443: Advanced Molecular Biology Lecture
           			Prereq: GMS BT 413 (Mol Bio) or consent of program director. This course evaluates how cutting-edge   technologies in molecular biology contribute to unraveling gene function and biological processes.   Students read, discuss and present original research papers about transcriptional regulation,   intracellular signaling pathways, cell cycling, apoptosis, cancer, and DNA repair. Technologies discussed   include microarrays, RNA silencing, inducible gene expression systems, reporter gene assays,   mutagenesis, use of green fluorescent protein for life cell imaging, the creation of transgenic and   knockout animals, the Cre/Lox system, and the use of biological databases. Great opportunity to   develop and improve your PowerPoint presentation skills. 		

GMS BT 444: The Business of Biotechnology
	This course provides students with knowledge pertaining to the scientific, political, legal, and ethical   issues that drive the advancement and innovation in biotechnology. Students learn how the various   drivers of medical biotechnology interact with one another and shape the business and finance of this   industry and impact its growth. Students explore intellectual property, R&amp;D, marketing and other   issues including what shapes the public view of biotechnology. In addition, students develop their   creative thinking and analytical skills and explore their ideas of new vision of biotechnology through   discussions, readings, and presentations. 		

GMS BT 450: Forensic Toxicology
	Prereq: one semester of biology, two semesters of chemistry, and BT 405 (Biochemistry).  This  course explores the role of toxicology as a safeguard to prevent injury from environmental  chemicals and as a tool in the investigations of suspicious deaths. Case studies, videos showing  how forensic evidence is used in court and group discussions will accompany lectures and  demonstrations. Students also explore the role of legal and medical communities as well as  governmental agencies in dealing with issues. 		

GMS BT 454: Cell Culture Techniques
	Prereq:  one semester of biology, two semesters of chemistry, BT 110 (Intro Biomed Lab Sci), BT 208   (Essential Math for Biotech) &amp; BT 342 (Cell Bio). This course gives students a foundation in cell culture   techniques used in modern cell culture labs. Topics  include aseptic technique, freezing and thawing of   cell stocks, passage and maintenance of cells, and culture of adherent and suspension cells. Emphasis is   on practical hands-on experience.  Upon completion of this course, students will be able to understand   and follow basic cell culture protocols.  Laboratory course.		

GMS BT 456: Endocrinology
	Prereq: BT 201 (A&amp;P 1) and BT 202 (A&amp;P 2) or consent of program director. This course presents an in-  depth study of the endocrine system, its glands and tissues. Students will examine the mechanisms of   hormone action and the pathophysiology of endocrine diseases.  Topics include: calcium metabolism,   the gastrointestinal hormones, the pancreatic hormones and metabolic regulation, growth hormones,   thyroid hormones, catecholamines and the sympathetic adrenal system, adrenal cortical steroid   hormones, and hormones of male and female reproduction. Laboratory exercises and clinical   correlations will be incorporated into the course.		

GMS BT 460: Drug Discovery
	Prereq: One semester of biology, two semesters of chemistry and  BT 405 (Biochem).  This course   covers laboratory technologies utilized in the pre-clinical drug development phase with emphasis on   the issues and challenges of molecular targeted therapeutics, a new paradigm in drug discovery. In   addition, DNA, RNA and protein-based therapeutics, and gene and stem cell therapies are discussed.     Students learn about translational technologies used to identify and validate drug targets, as well as   lead optimization and selection of drug candidates.  A hands-on laboratory component reinforces drug   discovery concepts.		

GMS BT 462: Drug Development
           			Prereq: One semester of biology, two semesters of chemistry, and BT 405 (Biochem). BT 575 (Design &amp;   Conduct of Clin Trials) recommended. This course explores how drugs developed at the bench   transition to clinical testing and subsequently to the market. The translational approach in drug   development is discussed as well as current translational technologies. Topics include the molecular   and pathophysiological basis of select diseases; drug design; pre-clinical testing; clinical evaluation of   drugs; regulatory requirements for drug approval; and the frontiers of translational research. Lectures   are combined with discussions and presentations.		

GMS BT 465: Cell Signaling in Health and Disease
	Prereq: One semester of biology and two semesters of chemistry, BT 342 (Cell Biology) or BT 413  (Molecular Biology). Many pathological conditions such as diabetes and cancer are caused by  perturbations in signal transduction cascades. These cascades convert extracellular signals into  changes in gene expression and alterations in cell physiology. The proteins that participate in  signal transduction cascades interact in a dynamic, regulated fashion to form multi-protein  complexes that allow information processing. This course aims to present in a comprehensive  manner, the major signal transduction pathways, their cross-talk, as well as their contribution in  maintaining cellular homeostasis.  In addition, we will highlight perturbations of these pathways  that could lead to development of different diseases as well as the molecular logic that underlies  current and future therapies.		

GMS BT 470: Technologies in Clinical Research
	Prereq: 1-2 years clinical research experience or one of the following-- BT 540 (Reg &amp; Compl, BT 560   (GCP), BT 575 (Design &amp; Conduct of Clin Trials). This course explores the multiple technologies that   govern key aspects of clinical trial management and regulatory filings. Students learn how to identify   the various technologies that are used in the conduct of clinical trials, the regulations that govern their   use, and the issues that companies face in deploying the various tools. Students also examine a sample   company with a clinical portfolio and identify the timing, importance, and integration requirements of   the various technologies with emphasis on strengths and weaknesses associated with the conduct of   the trial. The course also includes an introduction to the use of social media in clinical trials.		

GMS BT 484: Advanced Cell Culture Techniques
	Prereq: one semester of biology, two semesters of chemistry,Â&nbsp;BT 454 (Cell Culture) and BT 413 (Mol   Bio) or consent of program director. Cell culture has become an indispensable tool for all areas of   biomedical science.Â&nbsp;In the course, students develop the necessary routine for work in a cell culture lab   by passaging cell lines throughout the course and determining growth characteristics under different   conditions. At the same time, students isolate and analyze biomolecules from these cell lines and   perform experiments using advanced techniques, such as transfections, reporter gene assays, as well as   a variety of optical assays (absorbance, luminescence, and fluorescence assays). At the end of the   course, students communicate their work and results during a poster session. Laboratory course.		

NOTE: Program information is accurate as of July 2013. Check the <a href="http://www.bu.edu/met/">MET website</a> for important updates.
