GSM AC 710: Financial Reporting and Analysis
		An introduction to financial accounting and how organizations provide financial information to external users (stockholders, creditors, and analysts). The focus is on understanding the impact of business activities and accounting choices on financial statements, and analyzing financial statements to infer the business activities undertaken.  Topics covered include income statement and balance sheet format, purposes, and limitations; statement of cash flows; and analysis of the impact of different business models on financial performance.		

GSM AC 711: Financial Reporting and Control
	An introduction to accounting, and an examination of how it helps in decision-making.  Financial accounting (information needs of stockholders, creditors, and analysts) and managerial accounting (information needs of managers) are stressed equally.  Topics covered include income statement and balance sheet format, purposes, and limitations; statement of cash flows; analysis of financial statements; cost behavior; use of relevant costs in decision making; budgeting; and divisional performance measurement. 		

GSM AC 814: Financial Statement Analysis & Investor Decisions
		This course is designed to develop skills in interpreting and analyzing the financial reports prepared by firms for investors and creditors. The following topics are covered: 1) analyzing profitability and risk , (2) understanding the major accounting choices affecting financial statements and managerial incentives that influence these choices, (3) assessing the quality of earnings, (4) using cash-flow based and earnings-based valuation models.  The course also includes a brief review of some important accounting principles, emphasizing areas that were not covered in AC710.  [Lectures, exercises, exams, and project.]		

GSM AC 841: Advanced Accounting
		Examines accounting principles and practices related to business combinations and foreign operations (accounting for mergers and acquisitions, constructing consolidated financial statements, recording foreign currency transactions and hedging exchange risk, translating foreign subsidiaries' local currency financial statements), business segments, reporting for local governments, and the impact of the SEC and international standards on financial reporting.  Meets w/undergraduate  AC541		

GSM AC 847: Intermediate Accounting 1
		Topics covered: 1) Review of generally accepted accounting principles, especially  matching concept and revenue recognition rules.  2) Consideration of balance sheet  and income statement classification issues. 3) Accounting and reporting issues  related to cash, accounts receivable, inventories, investments, intangibles, and  plant assets.		

GSM AC 848: Intermediate Accounting 2
		This course focuses on the recognition and measurement of issues in accounting  related to income taxes, lease obligations, and pension liabilities and equity.   It focuses further on the preparation of, and uses for, statement of cash flows;  calculating, reporting, and interpreting financial measures, including earnings  per share; the nature and purpose of segment and interim reporting; and  accounting for changing prices.  The course also provides a brief overview of  the auditor's opinion.		

GSM AC 865: Auditing Issues & Problems
		Introduces the basic concepts underlying auditing and assurance services (including materiality, audit risk, and evidence) and demonstrates how to apply those concepts to audit and assurance services through financial statement audits.		

GSM AC 869: Principles of Income Taxation I
		Federal income tax law common to all taxpayers--individuals, partnerships, corporations. Tax returns for individuals. Topics include tax accounting, income to be included and excluded in returns, tax deductions, ordinary and capital gains and losses, inventories, installment sales, depreciation, bad debts, and other losses.		

GSM AC 901: Introduction to Accounting Research
	Introduction to basic tools in financial accounting and managerial accounting research; domain of accounting research and research methods employed; using computerized databases in large sample financial accounting studies; basic managerial accounting modeling tools.		

GSM DS 850: Management Internship
	This course is designed to accommodate students interning with an organization that requires that they receive credit for the internship experience.		

GSM DS 906: Fundamentals of Research and the Philosophies of Science (previously MK912)
	This course focuses on the philosophy of science and the practice of business academics.  It develops an understanding of where the study of business falls within the philosophy of science.  After reviewing the historical underpinnings of scientific theory development and scientific methodology, it compares and contrasts different approaches to business scholarship from empiricism to post modernism and examines what it is that makes some research interesting and important.  Although some of the examples will be taken from the marketing literature, the inquiry will be broad enough to accommodate all business disciplines. The second half of the course is devoted to an examination of how theory is developed and can be evaluated, as well as an exploration of the many different approaches to empirical research including the requirements of, and threats to, the various forms of validity inherent in each.  A portion of the class includes involvement in research seminars, participation with the Universities seminars on research compliance and participating in ongoing research as a research assistant		

GSM DS 915: Pro Seminar 1
			

GSM DS 999: Doctoral Dissertation Study
	This 2-credit course is a requirement to maintain doctoral student status during the completion of your Comprehensive Exam, Dissertation Proposal Defense and ultimately, Dissertation Defense. Each department has its own section which are as follows: Accounting (A1); Finance/Economics (B1); Information Systems (C1); Strategy and Policy (D1); Marketing (E1); Operations and Technology Management (F1); Organizational Behavior (G1); and Mathematical Finance (M1).		

GSM ES 700: Executive Presentation
	A presenter's delivery skills impact the audience's image of the presenter and the clarity of the message being communicated.  A combination of lecture, discussion, and hands-on practice and simulation, this course is designed to help you exercise leadership through verbal communication.		

GSM ES 701: Executive Written Communication
	This course is a combination of lecture, discussion, and hands-on practice. It's designed to help you exercise leadership through writing and understand how strategies of written communication are an essential aspect of effective management, working relationships in the network era, and overall business strategy.		

GSM ES 707: Managing Career Growth
	The MBA is simply a step along the path of a career.  It provides the skills and tools necessary to take many steps forward, but you must manage where those steps lead and how.  Managing Career Growth will provide you the understanding of how to managing your own career going forward.   The class will cover:  -Career self-assessment (interests, values and skills)  -Networking and developmental relationships  -Career management/advancement strategies  -Developing your career marketing plan and professional portfolio.  All with the purpose of providing a foundation to not only manage your next steps but continuously assess, network, market and manage yourself.  You are indeed a business of one and you are the one responsible for managing that business. 		

GSM ES 721: Teaming
	Teaming is one of the three elements of the Professional Skills course. Delivered through key interactions across the modular MBA core, teaming works to both support student work in teams while also provide an intellectual understanding of how to assess the dynamics by which teams form, develop, change, achieve success and transform or disband.  		

GSM ES 722: Executive Communication
	Executive Communication is one of the three elements of the Professional Skills course. Beginning in the pre-term and delivered through key interactions across the modular MBA core, Executive Communication will provide students with essential skills in oral communication - including development of a presenter's delivery skills and message clarity - and written communication - including how to exercise leadership through writing and understanding how strategies of written communication are an essential aspect of effective management. Executive Communication skills delivery is also structured to provide supporting content linked to both the career and integrated project activities.		

GSM ES 723: Career Management
	Career Management is one of the three elements of the Professional Skills course. This professional development course is designed to assist students in transforming interests into professional goals, and these goals into an MBA level, candidate-driven internship and job search. The Career Management course integrates a set of complementary resources and activities: self-assessment, career management tools, skill building opportunities, and active involvement in a career development community. The course will help students to determine professional goals;  develop and implement a plan for achieving them;  acquire the specific skills and experiences needed to become market ready; build a personal brand and professional network.		

GSM ES 724: Professional Skills
	The Professional Skills Collection consists of three elements integrated into the full time MBA curriculum: Communications; Teaming, and Career Management. First, Communications focuses on both oral elements - including development of a presenter's delivery skills and message clarity - and writing elements - including how to exercise leadership through writing and understanding how strategies of written communication are an essential aspect of effective management. Second, Teaming will support student work on teams while also assessing the dynamics by which teams form, develop, change, achieve success and transform or disband. Third, Career Management will assist students in transforming personal interests into professional goals, and these goals into an MBA level, candidate-driven internship and job search through a set of complementary resources and activities. Each of the three professional skills elements are integrated within, and delivered alongside, the integrated modular MBA core experience.		

GSM FE 721: Finance 1
		The objective of this course is to introduce the students to the theory and practice of corporate finance, and to provide the students with a set of analytical tools necessary to answer the most important questions related to firms' valuation and investment decision making first under certainty and then under uncertainty. The course can be divided into the following three building blocks: valuation, investment decisions, and the relation between risk and return.		

GSM FE 722: Financial Management
		Financial Management examines three sets of problems:  1) saving and investment decisions by households, 2) investment and financing decisions by corporations, and 3) the role of securities markets and financial intermediaries in the economy.  Decisions today affect the timing of and uncertainty about future flows of income; both timing and risk determine the current value of those future flows.  This course develops the tools required to analyze these decisions and their interaction within the financial system.		

GSM FE 730: Economics and Management Decisions
		The aim of the course is to present many of the decision problems managers face and to present the economic analysis they need to guide these decisions.  In the first half of the course, microeconomic tools are used to structure complicated decision problems about production, pricing, investment, and other strategic issues, address uncertainty through probabilistic forecasts and sequential decisions.  An additional goal is to distinguish different market structures and apply competitive strategies using game theory.  In the second half, the focus shifts to the study of the national and global economic environments within which companies operate.   We identify the drivers of fluctuations in GDP, inflation, interest and exchange rates, and other key features of the economies.  Since governments play key roles in determining the fate of economies and companies, the final theme is the rationale for and efficacy of government policy tools.		

GSM FE 810: Finance 2
		This course extends fundamental concepts of corporate finance and asset pricing  introduced in the core. Corporate finance concepts covered are capital structure  decisions, payout policy decisions, and real options. Asset pricing topics  include market efficiency, multi-factor models for the risk and return,  arbitrage pricing theory and contingent claim analysis and its use in valuation  and risk management. The concepts are illustrated in practical examples that  prepare students for their summer internships.		

GSM FE 820: Corporate Financial Management
		This course provides an in-depth analysis of financial considerations relating  to corporate growth. It addresses the setting of financial and corporate goals  in terms of maximizing shareholder wealth and relationships among working  capital, debt levels, capital costs, dividend policy, growth and the value of  the firm. It also considers the requisite financial analysis associated with  mergers and acquisitions and bankruptcy.		

GSM FE 821: Advanced Corporate Finance
		This course is designed for students who are pursuing careers in corporate finance (such as chief financial officer, treasurer, or controller) in an industrial corporation,  in the corporate finance department of an investment banking firm or in investment banking.  The course provides follow-up on the basic financial frameworks and analytical methods outlined in introductory courses.  Three primary areas are covered: risk management; agency, information, and psychology; and real options. 		

GSM FE 822: Fixed Income Markets
		This is a course primarily on fixed-income debt securities and markets.  Emphasis is placed on the factors that determine bond yields, factors such as the coupon and maturity structure, liquidity, credit risk, and tax status of the security, and on measures of return and risk, statistics such as the yield to maturity, horizon yield, duration, and convexity.  We will cover government debt (Treasuries and municipals), corporate bonds (investment-grade and high-yield), agency (Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac) and mortgage-backed debt created via securitization (i.e., collateralized mortgage obligations).  We will emphasize how interest rate and credit derivatives are used to manage portfolios of fixed-income securities.		

GSM FE 823: Investments
		Introduction to the investment management process. Defining investment  objectives and constraints. Introduction to Modern Portfolio Theory, CAPM, Fama- French factors, APT, efficient markets, stock, bond and option valuation models.  Immunizing interest-rate risk. Active and passive investment strategies,  fundamental analysis, trading practices, and performance evaluation.  Introduction to the role of futures and options in hedging and speculation.  Arbitrage and hedge fund strategies. Understanding the assumptions underlying  the different approaches and their limitations. Topics related to current events  and the recent financial crisis.		

GSM FE 827: International Financial Management
		This course analyzes corporations' exposures to financial risks in the global  economy. It discusses national currency systems and currency volatility, and how  corporations identify, measure and deal with exposure to such volatility. It  introduces students to foreign currency markets, currency derivatives markets,  and international financing markets that help corporations deal with the various  risks they face and take advantage of opportunities that arise in foreign  markets.		

GSM FE 829: Futures, Options and Financial Risk Management
		Futures and stock options are recognized as important tools of investment and risk reduction. This course covers the theory of futures and option pricing and develops a framework for analyzing hedging and investment decisions using futures and options.  Attention is paid to practical considerations in the use of these investments, tax and accounting issues and the institutional features of the market in which the various instruments are traded.		

GSM FE 850: Private Equity: Leveraged Buyouts
		Private Equity (PE) is a major force in the capital markets, acquiring household  names such as Dell, Toys R Us, Neilson, Nieman Marcus, and many more. This  course exposes students to, and de-mystifies, the PE world. The focus is  centered on LBOs and their position in the alternative asset class. Students  learn about the activities of PE firms including formation, fundraising,  investing (deal structure, terms, due diligence, governance) and exiting. We  also discuss how other industry sectors serve or are affected by PE and who the  players are. This is a capstone course that integrates marketing, strategy and  finance to further the understanding of business evaluation. Case study and  class participation are the primary modes of learning. Course offered jointly  with undergraduate course SMG FE 450.		

GSM FE 854: Entrepreneurial Finance
		The focus of FE854 is on the development of financial and business skills to  identify, evaluate, start and manage new ventures. A comprehensive understanding  of finance is an essential ingredient in the "recipe" for business success. No  longer can the assumptions underlying financial projections be treated as "black  boxes." In many cases, the answer is less important than the analytical process  used to calculate it. Readings for the course will primarily be in the form of  case studies, and will be supplemented by guest speakers, presentations, and  readings from academia and industry.		

GSM FE 918: Doctoral Seminar in Finance
	This doctoral course, is designed to provide students with an introduction to financial economics.  This lecture-based course will cover no arbitrage conditions, preferences and risk aversion, portfolio selection, the capital asset pricing model, asset pricing and dynamic asset pricing.  In addition to lectures, this class will include readings and assignments.   Open to MBA students with faculty member's permission.  Must have strong quantitative background and several courses in finance or economics. 		

GSM HM 703: Health Sector Issues and Opportunities
	This course provides a dynamic introduction to the health sector, beginning with the burden and distribution of disease and current patterns of expenditures.  While the emphasis will be on the American system, a global context will be developed.  The basic elements of insurance and payment, service delivery, and life sciences products will be described, and put in the context of the unique economic structure of the sector.  The intense challenges of the sector will be explored, as well as both the ethical issues presented and the opportunities that emerge.  Public policy and technological and practice development as drivers of change will be addressed throughout.   		

GSM HM 710: Health Service Delivery: Strategies, Solutions and Execution
		This course will provide knowledge and skills needed to develop and implement systems capable of delivering accessible, high quality, efficient health care services.  It will draw upon relevant information from disciplinary areas of study including strategy, operations, marketing, finance, law, human resources, quality improvement, and information technology.		

GSM HM 717: Drugs, Devices and Diagnostics: New Challenges, Strategies and Execution
		This course will examine issues and opportunities in life sciences including the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical devices sectors and the life sciences service industry supporting these sectors.  The course will investigate who manages these companies and what are the strategies that are used to build successful enterprises.  There will be a review of the expertise that is needed in these companies or that must be out-sourced including development, manufacturing, marketing and finance.  The principals governing the industry including patent law, regulatory and FDA compliance will be addressed.  Formerly titled: Bio-Pharma and Medical Device Companies: Strategies, Solutions and Execution		

GSM HM 801: Bench-to-Bedside: Translating Biomedical Innovation from the Laboratory to the Marketplace
	The subject of the course is the translation of medical technologies into new products and services for the healthcare system.  The course begins with a rigorous study of intellectual property, licensing and the core aspects of planning, creating, funding and building new entrepreneurial ventures. Concepts and tools are presented for assessing new technologies and their potential to be the basis for a new entrepreneurial venture.  Comparisons will be made of how technologies can be sourced and commercialized out of three very different environments: universities, national laboratories and corporate laboratories.  Cross-disciplinary teams of students will be formed which will evaluate translational research projects currently being developed at Boston University and their potential for transformation into a start-up company to commercialize the technology, providing a unique linkage between the scientific research activities of the university and the professional schools.  Each week there will be a case study which will discuss examples of both success and failure in technology commercialization.  Some of these case studies examine Boston University life sciences spin-out companies, and the founders and CEO?s of these ventures will share their experiences with the class.		

GSM HM 817: Health Information Technology
		This course provides students with the knowledge and skills to evaluate and manage information technology in heath care organizations. In particular it focuses on the role of IT in driving organizational change and supporting quality improvement and elimination of medical errors. Topics include electronic health records, computerized provider order entry, interoperability, management decision support, and provider pay for performance. The perspective of the course is that of the chief information officer (CIO) and other managers and users of health care information systems, not that of the technical specialist. The course will consist of a series of lectures, cases, and discussions - some of which will be led by guest lecturers who are experts in the field of health care information technology and systems. Course requirements include a quiz, a 10-page paper, and a class presentation.		

GSM HM 833: Health Sector Marketing
		This elective provides an in-depth understanding of health sector marketing in the for-profit and not-for-profit sectors for both products and services (hospital, managed care and health services of all types, life sciences, pharma and biotech, medical devices, medical software, and so on). The course explores how the tools of marketing (e.g., consumer behavior, pricing, promotion, channels, branding, segmentation, etc.) can be employed in the rapidly changing health sector with particular attention to changing organizational structures, financing, technologies, market demands, laws, channels of distribution, on-line applications, and regulations which require new approaches to marketing. Topics to be addressed include marketing to physicians, DTC (Direct-to-Consumer) Marketing, new product development particularly for pharmaceuticals and medical devices, adoption of medical and service innovations, typical decision making units in the health sector, and social marketing. (The course is still in development so there will likely be more topics added.) The course will have you keep in mind always while making marketing decisions that medicine, in the purest sense, is a profession with an intellectual discipline, a tradition of service, and an ethical code of conduct, and that service to the patient, as individuals and in the aggregate, is foremost in marketing decision making.		

GSM HM 840: Health Sector Consulting
	This is an applied consulting project course. Students enrolled in this course will be divided into teams of 4 students during the first class; the assignment of teams is largely dependent upon having a shared interest in one of the number of prospective consulting projects.  Each team will select from a pre-designated list of business development-strategy-marketing consulting projects.  Projects in the past have ranged from developing an international pricing strategy for the introduction of a new product by Genzyme to providing a marketing plan for a web-based entrepreneurial venture (a medical website targeted toward providing health care clinicians with products, services and information related to electromyography) to developing a strategy for the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute to maintain the loyalty of their referring physicians .                                                        Client companies/organizations have requested these projects, are paying the school for the privilege of having an MBA team, and are covering all expenses associated with the projects. In return, they anticipate receiving a consulting report from the student team at the end of the semester.  The deliverables for this assignment are the consulting report as well as a 30 minute in-class presentation followed by a 10 minute question-and-answer period. The team may also be asked by the client to make a presentation to the client?s management. These projects constitute a way to apply what you are learning in the MBA program to a real health sector management situation; an opportunity to gain experience and broaden your familiarity with health sector organizations with which you have had little or no direct experience; a way for local, regional, and national health sector organizations to benefit from your expertise and hard work in solving a management problem; and a continuing linkage of the Boston University MBA and Health Sector Management Programs to the health sector community. 		

GSM IM 800: Cont Erp Fld Sm
			

GSM IM 802: Cont Asn Fld Sm
			

GSM IM 803: Cont Brz Fld Sm
			

GSM IM 836: Competing in High-Growth Economies
	In this course we focus on the management challenges associated with developing strategies and managing the operations of companies whose activities stretch across national boundaries, especially in high-growth and developing economies. Operating in an international rather than a domestic arena presents organizations with many challenges and opportunities. Having a worldwide operations not only gives companies access to new markets and diverse resources, it also opens up new sources of information and knowledge that stimulate future innovation and strategic moves, as well as assessing Corporate roles in social responsibility. With opportunities, however, come challenges that are more complex, diverse, and uncertain than those faced by companies that operate only within a given nation's borders.  As a result of taking this course students will acquire new and useful skill,s competencies, an perspectives that will help them as they consider perusing a career in international management.		

GSM IM 845: Asian Field Seminar
		How do we prepare for the emerging opportunities and challenges that China's economic development and Asia's growing presence continue to create?  This two-week seminar through six cities in China and Korea provides future global business leaders with an opportunity to contemplate answers to the above question.  We visit companies (both multinational and local) competing in this dynamic market, meet governmental officials to hear about policies and implications, learn from local MBA professors about what they see our strengths and weaknesses are, participate in real market activities, and develop global network of knowledge with local MBA students and BU alumni in the region.  Through this process, students will deepen their understanding of the unique nature of opportunities and challenges in the region, become more comfortable with the myriads of cultural and communicational details, and explore professional opportunities located in the region.  		

GSM IM 851: European Field Seminar
		The European Field Seminar gives students an appreciation of "competing in  Europe."  The European competitive landscape is changing rapidly.  Three Boston- based class sessions introduce students to topics such as the history of the  European Union, European Community Law, Member States, European Monetary Union,  and Competition Policy.  During a two week period, the class visits a variety of  organizations in Europe to learn about relevant competition issues; students  experience first-hand how firms are dealing with them (or should be dealing with  them).  The wide variety of Sectors covered appeals to a broad segment of the  MBA population.		

GSM IM 852: Brazil Field Seminar
		This intensive ten day seminar provides students with a broad understanding of  the ways in which business strategies can create value at the base of the  economic pyramid.* Students will gain first hand experience of how businesses,  NGOs (non-governmental organizations), and government are using models of social  enterprise to address social and economic issues in the fields of health,  education, and the environment in the context of an emerging market - in this  case, Brazil.  This study program includes extensive site visits throughout the  country to social enterprises, multi-national firms, NGO ventures, and  government organizations. Students also hear from a wide variety of Latin  American specialists in topic areas. A broad range of topics will be covered  including: renewable energy, sustainable development, eco-tourism, new models  for providing health and education services to underserved populations, social  enterprise, micro-enterprise, corporate social responsibility, and  public/private partnerships. The course will consist of three pre-departure  sessions focused on social enterprise, corporate social responsibility, and  emerging markets. Students are also expected to select an individual research  track of interest for the duration of the seminar. This seminar is open to all  full time and part time MBA and MS.MBA students. Full time students may register  for it as a spring elective, part time students can register for it as they see  fit, students graduating in May can register for this class in the Spring and  still participate in commencement ceremonies, and MS.MBA students may take it in  year two. *In global terms, this is the four billion people who live on less  than $2 per day. The phrase "bottom of the pyramid" is used in particular by  people developing new models of doing business that deliberately target that  market, typically using new technology.		

GSM IM 853: Indian Field Semiar
		This program is designed for MBA students who seek to understand the rapidly changing global forces of the health sector, as they intersect with the dynamics of an emerging country, through the vehicle of experiencing and learning about India.  Following a series of meetings in Boston, 20 students will travel through India over twelve days in January 2010, visiting Delhi, Mumbai, and Bangalore. The field study program will include visits to government agencies, hospitals, pharmaceutical companies, health sector start-up companies, health centers, research laboratories, and academic research settings. Issues of particular interest include technology and bio-pharma development, effective service delivery with limited resources, the role of entrepreneurial initiative in complex environments, international trade and competition in the health sector, and the potential to leapfrog development in underdeveloped settings.  Open to all MBA students.		

GSM IM 885: INTL MGMTFLD II
	This course will allow students the opportunity to utilize and apply their MBA learning to business work experience. Students will secure their internship in a position related to the MBA degree program. The deliverable of the project is a paper in which the students must address how the position will leverage their MBA career growth and industry analysis.  The deliverable will be due upon completion of the internship experience.		

GSM IS 705: Mgn Ntwrkd Sys
			

GSM IS 707: Systems Architecture
	Focuses on Operating Systems for workstations and mainframes with emphasis on the operating system as both a provider of service and manager of resources.  It includes discussions and cases in the management of technology and technical people as well as personal issues professionals and managers.		

GSM IS 710: IT Strategies for a Networked Economy
		This case-based course demonstrates the role that information technology plays in shaping business strategy and business models.  It provides an overview of the key technologies that are important in today's business environment and introduces organization and management concepts relating to the information technology function.  The course also illustrates the relationships between organizational performance and the ability to leverage knowledge assets.   		

GSM IS 711: IT Strategies for a Networked Economy
		This case-based course demonstrates the role that information technology plays in shaping business strategy and business models.  It provides an overview of the key technologies that are important in today's business environment and introduces organization and management concepts relating to the information technology function.  The course also illustrates the relationships between organizational performance and the ability to leverage knowledge assets.		

GSM IS 714: Mastering IT Strategy
	This is a capstone course to integrate the key concepts and approaches to managing IT in modern corporations. Using a set of leading-edge case examples, frameworks, the students will have an opportunity to understand how IT strategy supports current business models while shaping tomorrow's business models.  Students will master the intricate challenges of placing IT at the core of modern enterprises. They will have an opportunity to apply their learnings to a company of their choice through a course project.		

GSM IS 827: Platforms and Information Markets
		To thrive in modern economies, managers, entrepreneurs and investors need a thorough understanding of business platforms. Thousands of firms, from Facebook to Salesforce, now operate as open ecosystems that match buyers and sellers, gain value and market share from network effects, and harness their users to innovate. Drawing on cases from social media, entrepreneurship, enterprise software, mobile services, healthcare, and consumer products, students will analyze and learn to negotiate platform startup, convert existing businesses, and make vital decisions on issues of openness, cannibalization, and competition. Students will interact with execs of major firms such as Cisco and SAP and with startups. They will learn to apply concepts from two sided networks, industrial organization, information asymmetry, pricing, intellectual property, and game theory to real problems. Known worldwide for his work on network business models, Professor Van Alstyne provides students with the tools to leverage key principles into hands-on creation and management of real-world platforms. 		

GSM IS 828: Managing Information Security
	This MBA elective (also open to undergraduates) will combine a technical and business approach to the management of information. It will address technical issues such as cryptography, intrusion detection and firewalls along with managerial ideas such as overall security policies, managing uncertainty and risk and organization factors. We will examine different aspects of computer security such as passwords, virus protection and managing computer security in dynamic environments. Topics will also include network security and how to secure wireless application and services. These technical details will be placed in a business context. The class will have a practical focus as we examine current best practices. There well be several guest speakers in the security area.  This will be a project oriented class and students will present their research projects during the last several classes.		

GSM IS 841: Advanced Business Analytics: Data Mining
	The widespread proliferation of IT-influenced economic activity leaves behind a rich trail of micro-level data about consumer, supplier and competitor preferences. This has led to the emergence of a new form of competition based on the extensive use of analytics, experimentation, and fact-based decision making. In virtually every industry the competitive strategies organizations are employing today rely extensively on data analysis to predict the consequences of alternative courses of action, and to guide executive decision making. This course provides a hands-on introduction to the concepts, methods and processes of business analytics. We will learn how to obtain and draw business inferences from data by asking the right questions and using the appropriate tools. Topics to be covered include data preparation, data visualization, data mining, text mining, recommender systems as well as the overall process of using analytics to solve business problems, its organizational implications and pitfalls. Students will work with real world business data and analytics software. Where possible cases will used to motivate the topic being covered. Prior courses in data management and statistics will be helpful but not required.		

GSM IS 854: Practicing IT Strategy, Management and Delivery
	For future business leaders who want to understand, influence and leverage technology investments more effectively.  The course provides effective strategies, pragmatic options, and leading practice alternatives for linking Business and Technology Strategies, defining effective governance and organization models, and successfully delivering new technology innovation.  Students will master the complex methods and practices needed to frame a problem and propose an actionable solution that would be expected from future Business Executives and Technology Managers. Students will master the complex methods and practices to frame a problem and propose an actionable solution that would be expected from Business Executives (e.g., CEO, Marketing Executive, CIO, CFO) and Technology Executives (e.g., Product Manager, Consultant, Program Manager, Sales).		

GSM IS 883: Designing Systems for Data Management
		The first objective is to introduce the student the concept of design in information systems. Although the design concepts covered largely focus on data management, it will include high level systems design concepts as well. The second objective of this course is to introduce the student to the practical applications of databases and database management systems. The students will learn the fundamentals of data management starting with the basics of data design. The students will learn querying and managing the data in a database, defining the structures for storing data, and implementing business rules in relational databases using the Structured Query Language (SQL). The two objectives will tie in together as the students will be expected to integrate systems design with data design to design a prototype information system. This exercise will walk the students through the process of eliciting requirements, defining the scope, designing a restricted set of functions, designing the database, implementing the database, and explaining how restricted set of functions will use the data. The programming requirements will be very minimal. Besides the basics of data management, this course will also cover relevant ?in? topics in data management such as database security, data quality management, and data auditing (if time permits).		

GSM IS 889: Telecommunications and Business Networks
	Examines the data communication hardware and software characteristics that are relevant to the applications software designer and presents a general overview of communications network design.  Topics include issues in the design and use of both local area networks and wide area networks, the impact of communications technology on organizations and trends in the communications industry are studied.		

GSM MF 600: Math Refresher
	The Mathematical Finance Program has a very strong quantitative component, one   which many incoming students underestimate. Although students admitted to the   program have satisfied the prerequisites in Mathematics, the program's   prerequisites represent the minimal, not the optimal, background required. Even   if you have learned the topics required as prerequisites, reviewing these   concepts immediately prior to the start of the program could be enormously   helpful and will certainly increase your chance of success in the program. The   course will begin with a review of matrix algebra, then proceed to examine the   role of calculus in comparative static analysis. Following this, unconstrained   and constrained optimization will be covered using multivariate calculus. The   second half of the class deals with dynamics, beginning with a review of   integration, and continuing with first- and higher-order differential equations. 		

GSM MF 601: Preparation Week
	Mathematical Finance Preparation Week is a combination of orientation activities,   academic sessions, and career preparation designed to give you a foundational   knowledge for the Mathematical Finance program. The week will include training on   various tools you will need for the program, professional development sessions,   and social gatherings.		

GSM MF 702: Fundamentals of Finance
	This course covers such topics as: financial markets (bonds, stocks, derivative securities, forward and futures contracts, exchanges, market indexes, and margins);  interest rates, present value, yields, term structure of interest rates, duration and immunization of bonds, risk preferences, asset valuation, Arrow-Debreu securities, complete and incomplete markets, pricing by arbitrage, the first and the second fundamental theorems of Finance, option pricing on event trees, risk and return (Sharpe ratios, the risk-premium puzzle), the Capital Asset Pricing Model, and Value-at-Risk. 		

GSM MF 730: Portfolio Theory
	A concise introduction to recent results on optimal dynamic consumption-investment problems is provided. Lectures will cover standard mean-variance theory, dynamic asset allocation, asset- liability management, and lifecycle finance. The main focus of this course is to present a financial engineering approach to dynamic asset allocation problems of institutional investors such as pension funds, mutual funds, hedge funds, and sovereign wealth funds. Numerical methods for implementation of asset allocation models will also be presented. The course also focuses on empirical features and practical implementation of dynamic portfolio problems. 		

GSM MF 731: Corporate Risk Management
	This course provides an introduction to modern methods of risk management. Lectures cover risk metrics, measurement and estimation of extreme risks, management and control of risk exposures, and monitoring of risk positions. The impact of risk management tools, such as derivative securities, will be examined. Issues pertaining to the efficiency of communication architectures within the firm will be discussed. Regulatory constraints and their impact on risk management will be assessed. The approach to the topic is quantitative. The course is ideal for students with strong quantitative backgrounds who are seeking to understand issues pertaining to risk management and to master modern methods and techniques of risk control. 		

GSM MF 770: Advanced Derivatives
	This course provides a comprehensive and in-depth treatment of valuation methods for derivative securities.  Extensive use is made of continuous time stochastic processes, stochastic calculus and martingale methods.  The main topics to be addressed include (i) European option valuation, (ii) Exotic options, (iii) Multiasset options, (iv) Stochastic interest rate, (v) Stochastic volatility, (vi) American options and (vii) Numerical methods. Additional topics may be covered depending on time constraints.		

GSM MF 772: Credit Risk
	This course covers asset pricing models (preferences, utility functions, risk aversion, basic consumption model, the mean-variance frontier, factor models, and robust preferences); and options pricing and risk management (arbitrage pricing in a complete market, delta-hedging, risk measure, and value-at-Risk). 		

GSM MF 792: Stochastic Methods of Mathematical Finance I
	This course provides the necessary background for using the general tools of stochastic calculus in the domain of mathematical finance. The topics include: information structures and financial markets (sample spaces, event trees, Ã³-algebras, and partitions), random variables and random processes, expected values and conditional expected values, probability distributions and change of measure, convergence of random variables, martingales and convergence of martingales, and the Brownian motion process.		

GSM MF 793: Statistical Methods of Mathematical Finance
	This course provides an introduction to R and Exploratory Data Analysis, Time Series Analysis, Multivariate Data Analysis, and Elements of Extreme Value Theory. This course also covers an array of statistical techniques used for simulation, parameter estimation, and forecasting in Finance.  		

GSM MF 795: Stochastic Methods of Mathematical Finance II
	This course focuses on developing the necessary tools from stochastic calculus to be applied in the mathematical theory of finance. Topics include: stochastic integration, equivalent changes of probability, fundamental theorems of finance, stochastic differential equations, pricing and hedging of contingent claims, short-rate models, introduction to American options, and changes of numeraire.		

GSM MF 810: Professional Practice Seminar
	The purpose of the Professional Practice Seminars is to give students a better  understanding of the financial markets and introduce them to the career  development skills needed to be successful in their internship and job searches.  The Financial Markets Module will introduce students to the inner-workings of  the markets, the market stakeholders, the organization of the markets, and the  market jargon. The Career Preparation Module will teach students necessary  communication skills for successful interviewing to leverage internship and full  time opportunities. It will also help them identify their role in the industry,  teach them how to establish a target list of companies and contacts, and guide  them through how to strategically position themselves and their unique value  through their personal brand.		

GSM MG 600: MBA Orientation
	Required orientation for all incoming M.B.A. students.		

GSM MG 700: Ethical and Global Foundations
	This experience, delivered during the pre-semester, will deliver ethical and global foundations which provide students a broad exposure to concepts that will be applied throughout the MBA experience. The foundation contains two courses. First, an intensive three day course - Ethics, Values, and Responsibility -- is designed to lay a conceptual foundation, introduce frameworks, provide a common language for ethics and ethical decision-making, and provoke awareness of one's values and ethical frontier to help guide principled thought and analysis. Second, Global Foundations will expose students to the complexities of operating in a global environment, discuss challenges associated with globalization, consider strategic factors when approaching global business problems, gain understating of global institutions, and provide a foundation on approaching country contexts. Synergies across both courses will emerge to provide students a strong foundation as they enter their core coursework.		

GSM MG 790: Ethical Leadership in a Global Economy
		Ethical Leadership in a Global Economy will provide students with a unique 2nd year learning experience on how the global economy is transforming economic sectors, presenting new risks, calling forth innovation, and challenging traditional values and norms.  Through engagement with select firms, governmental, and civil society organizations, students will develop an appreciation of how new realities challenge traditional business integrity, strategy, and values in the global economy.  Course projects and content will include both sector and functional based experiences. This course will provide opportunity for students to apply concepts which have been building through the pre-term, core, and professional skills courses. 		

GSM MG 800: Variable Credit
			

GSM MK 723: Marketing Management
		This course provides a practical understanding of how business strategies and tactics are driven by marketing's dual focus on customers and competition. Students will learn how to leverage marketing tools and emerging technologies in the creation (e.g., customer insight, product and service design, branding), delivery (e.g., communication and distribution), and capture (e.g., pricing, customer life time value) of marketplace value.  Across business contexts including B2C, B2B, products versus services, global versus domestic markets, small/medium/large organizations, for-profit versus social enterprises, the course builds the fundamental skills involved in analyzing market challenges and opportunities and making decisions for the formulation and implementation of successful and sustainable marketing programs.		

GSM MK 724: Marketing Management
		This course provides a practical understanding of how business strategies and  tactics are driven by marketing's dual focus on customers and competition.  Students will learn how to leverage marketing tools and emerging technologies in  the creation (e.g., customer insight, product and service design, branding),  delivery (e.g., communication and distribution), and capture (e.g., pricing,  customer life time value) of marketplace value. Across business contexts  including B2C, B2B, products versus services, global versus domestic markets,  small/medium/large organizations, for-profit versus social enterprises, the  course builds the fundamental skills involved in analyzing market challenges and  opportunities and making decisions for the formulation and implementation of  successful and sustainable marketing programs.		

GSM MK 841: Customer-Driven Growth Strategies
		Because companies face constant pressure to develop markets -- both existing and  new -- to feed demands for growth, we propose a course that would equip MBA  students with a nimble yet robust approach to identify, quantify and leverage  opportunities that facilitate growth. This course proposal comprises  experiential "modules" that are based on real-world scenarios designed in  collaboration with corporate executive partners (e.g., BU alumni, recruiters,  major area employers, network contacts). Modules pose growth challenges partners  have experienced in the sectors of (1) healthcare and pharmaceuticals, (2)  digital, (3) retail and (4) consumer-packaged goods.		

GSM MK 845: Social Media Marketing
		Social media technologies are continuously transforming the ways consumers  interact with each other and firms. These changes constitute a fundamental shift  in the marketplace--consumers have greater opportunities to voice their opinions  and connect with other consumers as well as increased influence over marketers  and brands. In this course, we examine how organizations capitalize on social  media and these consumer-to-consumer interactions to support their marketing  efforts. Specifically, we'll examine (a) how social media can be used to listen  to consumers and monitor their behavior; (b) developing and delivering content  that engages consumers; and (c) how to track the effectiveness of these efforts.  Finally, we'll explore how to manage both the internal and external dimensions  of social media engagement. We view these issues from a strategic and a  practical perspective, rather than a technical or platform perspective.  We  examine these topics using a hands-on approach, including live cases, personal  engagement in social media, and a team project.		

GSM MK 849: Debiasing Decision Making
		The objective of this course is to inform future managers, consultants, and advisors of the psychological processes and biases underlying the decisions made by customers, competitors, colleagues, and themselves, with emphasis on how to incorporate such insights into marketing and business strategies.  Applications of these processes and biases will be examined within the domains of the sustainability and health sectors.  The course will provide students with a broad overview of important results from various behavioral sciences (e.g., behavioral decision research, cognitive and social psychology, behavioral economics, consumer research) that demonstrate the several biases that can affect the quality of our strategic decisions. It is intended to provide students with knowledge about applying these findings to topics in marketing, strategic management, and organizational behavior.  Classroom time will be devoted to a combination of lectures, discussions, cases, and exercises illustrating the main concepts.		

GSM MK 852: Marketing Analytics
		This course will focus on developing marketing strategies driven by marketing analytics. Topics covered include market segmentation, targeting, and positioning, new product test marketing, market response models, customer profitability, social media, and marketing resource allocation.  The course will draw on and extend students' understanding of issues related to quantitative analysis and principles of marketing. The course will use a combination of cases, lectures, simulations, and a hands-on project to develop these skills.		

GSM MK 853: Global Strategic Marketing
		This course focuses on the key strategic marketing decisions managers must make: deciding whether to market globally; selecting countries in which to market; choosing marketing strategies and tactics for entry and growth; and organizing for and managing the implementation of global marketing strategies.		

GSM MK 854: Branding
		This is a course about branding, and the ways that brands acquire and sustain  value in the marketplace. Cases, readings, in-class discussions, and  team/individual assignments are designed to provide: An appreciation of the  strategic discipline of branding and its role in creating shareholder value; an  understanding of brands as co-creations of consumers, marketers, and cultures,  and brand management as a collaborative process of meaning management; a sound  foundation in consumer-brand behavior to inform brand decisions; and a capacity  to think creatively and precisely about the strategies and tactics involved in  building, leveraging, defending, and sustaining strong brands. Select topics may  include brand equity, brand (re)positioning, brand relationships, brand loyalty,  brand community, open source branding, branded entertainment and other cultural  branding strategies, internal branding, brand architecture design and portfolio  strategy, brand leverage and extensions, brand metrics, crisis management, and  brand stewardship. A team-based brand planning project or series of data-driven  applications weaves content throughout the course and, when possible, involves a  live client problem. Guest speakers from branding services, consulting, and  practice provide insights throughout the course. While this course has obvious  relevance for those contemplating brand management careers in product or service  markets, it is appropriate for a range of future professionals within for-profit  and not-for-profit C2C and B2B worlds, and others who share a simple passion for  branding.		

GSM MK 859: Business Marketing
		This course provides an in-depth understanding of the unique aspects of  marketing in a business-to-business environment. Students apply current  marketing theory and techniques to industrial market settings. In addition, they  develop managerial skills in the marketing planning and execution process, as  well as critical analysis and problem-solving abilities with respect to  marketing working relationships. The course allows participants to experiment  with and apply strategic marketing concepts in a complex industrial marketing  environment. Topics covered include the dynamics of relationships between  suppliers and customers, the increasing reliance on the marketing-/R&D  interface, the structuring of alliances between so-called competitors, and the  process of negotiations - to better understand how organizations endeavor to  become and stay market-oriented. The course has some guest speakers and an  interactive marketing simulation.		

GSM MK 860: Integrated Marketing Communication
		The purpose of Marketing 860, Integrated Marketing Communication, is to help  students understand the evolution in marketing and communication that is being  created by the shift of technology in new and traditional media.  By becoming  less functionally-driven and more consumer-focused, marketing leaders will begin  to see that 'integration' is more than having a consistent 'look' across all  media platforms and better understand how to develop opportunities via targeted  strategies that align with both customer expectations and business objectives.  This course will focus on IMC - where it's been, where it's going and current  challenges to IMC, including internal functional silos, and traditional  marketing and advertising strategies.  In addition, the class will review the  various new mediums that continue to push marketing communications past  traditional thinking and structures putting it all in perspective through a  course project that will challenge students to put all of these learnings into  perspective.		

GSM MK 862: Marketing High-Tech Products
		This course provides you with a good understanding of how marketing works in a  high-tech context. When it comes to marketing, there are five important  characteristics that make high-tech offerings (products and services) special:  technological uncertainty, customer uncertainty, competitor volatility, high- tech offerings are often used not singly but in larger overall systems, and  high-tech offerings often exhibit network externalities. These five  characteristics have a big impact on the type of challenges, analysis, and  marketing decisions made in high-tech industries. The overall purpose of this  course is to impart concepts, tools, and frameworks that you can apply as you  pursue careers as marketers of high-tech offerings, consultants, investment  bankers, and service professionals. The key objectives of the course are to:   Understand the special challenges involved in marketing high-tech products Learn  how to analyze high-tech marketing problems which involve significant customer,  market, and technological uncertainties; Examine approaches to improve the  market orientation of, and the marketing-R&D interface in, high-tech companies;  Understand the impact of diffusion of technology and adoption of innovation on  targeting and segmentation decisions; Explore the effect of complementary  products, databases, and systems on product and pricing decisions; Identify the  challenges and drivers of success at different stages in a technology's life- cycle; and, Understand the concept of value networks and the role of  complementors, partners, and competitors in high-tech industries.		

GSM MK 867: Marketing Social Change
		Globalization, increasing transparency in business operations and the prevalence  of social media have forever changed the way stakeholders view and interact with  organizations.  Societal and business imperatives are not only often considered  compatible; they can be increasingly viewed as one and the same. People today  often communicate, organize and engage based on mutual interests, and,  generally, place  greater trust in organizations and individuals that work for a  better world. Marketing has often been referred to as the "science of sales."  Whether you are selling a product, an intervention or an idea, it can be a  powerful tool for advancing social change in today's dynamic environment. The  strategic integration of a relevant social purpose into a product, business or  nonprofit organization through brand-building citizenship activities can drive  consumer and donor recall, consideration, acquisition, retention and propensity  to recommend. However, these efforts do not usually constitute a "silver bullet"  and may not be the best solution to a business problem or societal need at all.  In the worst cases, ill-conceived citizenship marketing strategies can result in  damaging consequences.  Practitioners must be pragmatic when engaging in  marketing social change. Understanding how to apply best practice, identify  opportunities, address challenges, engage stakeholders and innovate  strategically are essential skills in this rapidly evolving sector. The purpose  of this course is to provide students with an in-depth understanding of how  marketing principles can be applied to create both short-term and lasting social  change. Students will explore dimensions of the modern landscapes of brand,  corporate and nonprofit "citizenship" and how they relate to marketing. Areas of  study include: cause-related marketing and cause branding; nonprofit branding  and social movements, as well as corporate social responsibility and shared  value creation.		

GSM MK 915: Consumer Behavior II
	   Because firms that excel in developing deep insight into consumer behavior create and capture more value in the marketplace, it is critical for researchers to establish a strong foundation in consumer research.  The present course serves as a companion to the MK914: Seminar in Consumer Behavior I, and considers what some have called ?The Cultural Interpretivist Turn? in Marketing. This perspective calls for a broader conceptualization of the discipline, with greater attention to - phenomena and dynamics at the socio-cultural level, under-leveraged theoretical perspectives beyond psychology and economics, and grounded methodologies capable of situating consumer behavior in the context of people?s lives.  Topics include but are not limited to: Myth and Cultural Narratives; Semiotics; Materialism; Consumer-Brand Relationships; Consumer Socialization; Sub-Cultures of Gender, Lifestyle, Ethnicity, and Social Class; Communities and Tribes; Illicit Pleasures, Addictions, and High Risk Consumption; Politics of Consumption; and Consumer Well-Being. 		

GSM MK 927: Marketing Management and the Customer-Focused Firm
	This course will familiarize doctoral students with various areas of investigation for problem-oriented academic marketing research pertinent to the research mission of the department: advancing the customer-focused firm.  Discussion topics include but are not limited to the following strategies for gaining strategic advantage through the cultivation of marketing relationships: branding and brand equity, pricing, sales, customer relationship management and CRM, consumer-company identification, corporate social responsibility, consumer-to-consumer relationships and brand communities, retailing and customer service, product innovation, and product launch strategy.  Through exposure to a strategic marketing perspective for the identification of research problem areas, this course will further socialize students into the process of developing research ideas and undertaking research, while stimulating the development of ideas for summer projects, qualifying papers, and dissertations.		

GSM OB 712: Leading Organizations and People
	This course introduces you to some fundamental concepts, models and frameworks  to help you become better acquainted with the organizations for which you work,  the teams in which you work, the people with whom you work, and your own  personal development. Specifically, this course considers: 1) how to develop  yourselves as managers, 2) how to work well within teams, 3) how to assess and manage interpersonal dynamics, 4) how to structure more  effective organizations, and 5) how to manage organizational change. Tying all  of these elements together, we will devote particular attention to the traits,  skills and behaviors that are indicative of good leadership and how  organizations and managers can be transformed for better alignment with the  business demands of the future.		

GSM OB 713: Leading Organizations and People
		This course introduces concepts, models and frameworks to help you become better  managers of the organizations you work for, the teams you work in, the people  you work with and your own professional development. Emphasis will be on  behavioral science concepts and research findings related to the major challenge  managers face -- how to organize individuals in order to fulfill the objectives  and strategies of the firm. Topics that will be examined include: the nature and  dynamics of the organization (organizational structure and culture, performance  systems and metrics, reward systems, selection and socialization); the elements  of individual leadership and personal development (power, decision-making,  emotional intelligence, career development, developmental needs, feedback, and  mentoring and coaching); managing change within organizational contexts (the  dynamics and stages of organizational change and the skills and tactics employed  by change agents); and the relationships between the firm and the external  environment in which it operates. The course objective is to provide analytical  skills and strategies, substantive knowledge, and a professional sensibility  that will increase your ability to take effective action.		

GSM OB 815: Career Management & Work-Life Integration
		This seminar will examine major theoretical models and research on the process  of how careers unfold in and out of organizations. It will examine both the more  traditional issues of career dynamics in organizational settings (e.g., internal  labor markets, tournament mobility systems, organizational socialization) as  well as emergent issues of boundary-less, protean, or "free agent" career  processes, such as career transformation, career networks, developmental  relationships, adult development, and emotional competencies. 		

GSM OB 830: Leading the Mission-Driven Organization
	Mission-driven organizations are created in order to accomplish goals that  extend beyond profits for stakeholders and owners. Missions vary, ranging from,  among many others, improving health care, providing meaningful work  opportunities, educating or protecting youth, safeguarding the planet,  eradicating poverty, building sustainable organizations, and enabling  spirituality. Such missions occur in the context of various organizations,  including non-profit and for-profit, philanthropic and religious, public and  private, governmental and non-governmental. This course focuses on leadership  theories, frameworks, and practices that take seriously the nature of workers,  including both professional staff and volunteers, and their reasons for choosing  to work in such organizations. This course is designed to build the capacities  of students to use specific tools related to leadership, conflict, and change  that are particularly useful in leading mission-driven organizations, and enable  them to develop particular insights about specific mission-driven organizations  of interest, related to their effectiveness and capacities for change.		

GSM OB 835: Leading Sustainable Enterprises
	This course is designed to deepen students' appreciation for the leadership challenges and opportunities posed by the emerging realities of a more crowded, interconnected, and increasingly resource constrained globe - a world of unprecedented transparency, increasing consumer and investor power and more NGO (non governmental organizations) oversight than ever before.  Independent of rank within a company, it is certain that managers, leaders and entrepreneurs will meet or be met with issues that were not a part of management lexicon a decade ago.  More specifically, pressures to deliver bottom line results are now compounded by challenges of how such results are delivered.  In order to achieve excellence, managers and leaders of tomorrow must be attuned to the traditional strategic framework for competition, and the context of the ecosystem in which they operate.  Leaders of tomorrow will compete consciously and generatively to improve the lives of stakeholders including: shareholders, consumers, employees, suppliers and the planet.  This course will leverage systems thinking, case studies, debate, discussion, a blog and outside speakers from the world of commerce (e.g. the former CEO of Timberland, founder of QUINN Popcorn) and NGOs (e.g. EDF, TruCost, 1% for the Planet).  The course will blend theory and practice to provide students the context, tools, and frameworks to operate as sustainable stewards and leaders in the global economy.  		

GSM OB 840: Management Consulting Field Project
	The purpose of this course is to provide students with an in-depth understanding  of the management consulting process and its practical application. Students  will explore dimensions of the consulting framework, engagements, work  methodology, client relationship management, value creation, developing and  delivering presentations and client follow-up.  This course requires a series of  interim deliverables contributing toward the final deliverable. This course is  primarily a field-based course supported by lectures, readings, guest speakers  and case discussions.  The course simulates a small consulting firm where you  are the consultant.  By working on a consulting assignment with team members as  well as using your classmates as resources for your project you are gaining the  "real world" experience of working in a small consulting firm.  This class is  designed and best suited for second year students who have 3-5 years work  experience in the public, private or nonprofit sectors. Management consulting  experience is not required though it is helpful.		

GSM OB 841: Fundamentals of Nonprofit Management
		The purpose of this course is to teach students about the distinctive challenges  of managing high-performing organizations in the nonprofit sector. The course  will cover a broad range of topics and it is intended to be a gateway course to  the sector and to potential electives and pathways of future learning. The two  major projects in the semester (one is individual, one in a team) offer students  the chance to choose an area of interest to explore in depth. Other assignments  challenge students to identify and analyze key indicators of nonprofit  performance and to communicate effectively about those issues to selected  stakeholders. A strong grounding in nonprofit accounting and financial  management is extremely valuable and so we devote considerable attention to  those topics. The course also addresses nonprofit marketing, evaluation,  fundraising and revenue generation, growth strategy, impact investing, and the  confluence of charity and commerce. The course is oriented to practice and will  engage experts in the field.		

GSM OB 844: Managing Organizational Change
		Change is crucial for the success and survival of organizations.  Managing  change is central to the role of senior leaders, middle managers, and frontline  supervisors alike; each needs to understand the change process and develop the  skills necessary to engage that process effectively.  This course focuses on  both the knowledge and the set of skills that enable change to be effectively  managed across various organizations and industries.  Students will learn how to  be effective agents of change, in the context of different types of roles--tops,  middles and bottoms--and organizations.  We will explore the nature of both  proactive and reactive change, examining the conditions under which such change  is successful and the skills necessary to ensure that success.  Students will  also have the opportunity to learn about themselves as change agents, in the  context of considering their own tendencies, skills, and capabilities amidst  proactive and reactive change.  The course is particularly appropriate for  students who wish to develop their leadership and consultation capabilities.		

GSM OB 847: Leading High Performance Teams and Project Groups
	This course introduces the challenges of leading and participating in teams and project groups.  It emphasizes the role of leadership in composing teams, motivating members, and creating an environment in which teams and their members grow in capacity over time.  This course will use cases, experiential exercises, and group projects to help students gain both knowledge of team dynamics and the skills to shape them.		

GSM OB 848: The Leadership Challenge
		This course examines the essence of leadership; its relationship to managing; and the behaviors, attitudes and perspectives that distinguish leaders.  Leadership is considered in a variety of ways: leadership in crises, at the top, in the middle, and in groups.  Case studies, students' past experiences, instruments, and other learning activities provide opportunities for students to assess and develop their leadership talents.		

GSM OB 853: Negotiations
		This course uses the theory and research on effective negotiating strategies to build students' understanding of, and skills for, managing differences and negotiation situations.  The course considers, among other topics, the issues of negotiating across functions, between levels, across national and cultural differences, over race and gender differences, and between organizations.  Students examine: 1) problems of influence and self-defense in highly competitive "hardball" negotiations; and 2) the art of using differences for creative problem-solving and "mutual gain" outcomes.  The emphasis is on developing practical skills for effective negotiations that can be applied to concrete situations.  Students should be prepared to learn from their own experiences and practice in this course.		

GSM PL 870: Government, Society and Sustainable Development
		Government, Society and Sustainable Development is a broad and far-reaching course in scope and topics. After an introduction to the concepts of the limits-to-growth and global sustainability challenges resulting from population growth, resource scarcity, environmental degradation and climate change students dive deep into the cultural, societal and economic development issues of globalization, study the implications of globalization on the current social and economic development of nations/regions/industries and explore new development models (for-profit and non-profit entrepreneurship) for sustainable development at the international, national, and sub-national levels.  The Course has three major themes:  ? The first major theme of the course is a series of country cases that explore the cultural, social, political and economic context in which business enterprise has historically been conducted.    ? The second major theme of the course overlays the international institutions that emerged from Bretton Woods; the UN, GATT/WTO, the World Bank and the IMF, (the emerging World Environmental Organization, WEO) onto the country cases and explores emerging topics of international Intellectual Property Rights (IPR), Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and International Environmental Protection (IEP).  ? The third major theme of the course explores the emergence of new models of sustainable development; contrasting bottoms-ups collective action and entrepreneurship against classic aid-based models as a force for change and driver of sustainable development.  		

GSM PL 882: Public Policy Analysis
		This course explores the economics of the public sector and the impact government policy and programs have on society and business. The course provides students with tools to systematically examine the financing and measure the impact of government policies and regulations. It explores the rationale for government intervention, appropriate levels of intervention and how to measure the effectiveness of policies and regulations. This course is helpful to those who desire a deeper understanding of the central role government plays in the economy and how government impacts the business and nonprofit sectors. 		

GSM PL 888: Ds:Policy&LAW
			

GSM QM 716: Business Analytics: Data Analysis and Risk
		The overall goal of this course is to improve student ability to learn from  data, specifically to 1) assess the validity of conclusions that have been drawn  from statistical analyses; 2) recognize the extent to which variation  characterizes products and processes, and understand the implications of  variation on organizational decisions when interpreting data; and 3) portray,  summarize and analyze data to support operational and strategic decisions  associated with the core business models. Students will increase their  understanding of the use of probabilities to reflect uncertainty; how to  interpret data in light of uncertainty to assess risk; and how to build and  interpret regression models, which can be used to inform core business and  organizational decisions.		

GSM QM 717: Data Analysis for Managerial Decision-Making
		The overall goal of this course is to improve student ability to learn from  data, specifically to 1) assess the validity of conclusions that have been drawn  from statistical analyses; 2) recognize the extent to which variation  characterizes products and processes, and understand the implications of  variation on organizational decisions when interpreting data; and 3) portray,  summarize and analyze data to support operational and strategic decisions  associated with the core business models. Students will increase their  understanding of the use of probabilities to reflect uncertainty; how to  interpret data in light of uncertainty to assess risk; and how to build and  interpret regression models, which can be used to inform core business and  organizational decisions.		

GSM QM 880: Business Analytics:  Spreadsheet Optimization and Simulation
		The modeling process illustrated throughout the course will significantly improve students? abilities to structure complex problems and derive insights about the value of alternatives. You will develop the skills to formulate and analyze a wide range of models that can aid in managerial decision-making in the functional areas of business.  These areas include finance (capital budgeting, cash planning, portfolio optimization, valuing options, hedging investments), marketing (pricing, sales force allocation, planning advertising budgets) and operations (production planning, workforce scheduling, facility location, project management). The course will be taught almost entirely by example, using problems from the main functional areas of business. This course is not for people who want a general introduction to or review of Excel. This course is for students who are already comfortable using Excel and would like to use it to create optimization and simulation models.		

GSM SI 750: Competition, Innovation, and Strategy
		"Competition, Innovation, and Strategy" is an integrative course designed to capitalize on your understanding of Finance, Operations Management, Marketing, and other functional issues. The course draws on a number of academic disciplines, especially economics, organization theory, and sociology, to build a fundamental understanding of how and why some firms achieve and sustain superior performance. We also study why some firms persistently generate returns that are lower than average. The course is analytically focused and requires that you evaluate both the external environment and the internal capabilities of organizations. Corporate diversification and global management are important topics that are also featured.		

GSM SI 751: Competition, Innovation, and Strategy
		"Competition, Innovation, and Strategy" is an integrative course designed to capitalize on your understanding of Finance, Operations Management, Marketing, and other functional issues. The course draws on a number of academic disciplines, especially economics, organization theory, and sociology, to build a fundamental understanding of how and why some firms achieve and sustain superior performance. We also study why some firms persistently generate returns that are lower than average. The course is analytically focused and requires that you evaluate both the external environment and the internal capabilities of organizations. Corporate diversification and global management are important topics that are also featured.		

GSM SI 814: Intellectual Property Strategies
		This course covers the ways in which companies use intellectual property to  protect their investments in knowledge assets. Traditionally a concern for  technology-intensive businesses, patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade  secrets have become important business tools throughout the knowledge-based  economy. A good understanding of what IP assets are and how they work has become  essential for managers in all types of organizations. This is not a law course,  nor a how-to manual rather it is intended to develop your analytical  understanding of fundamental economic and legal aspects of intellectual property  systems, and how they drive competition and strategy.		

GSM SI 830: Corporate Strategies for Growth
		This course will examine strategies for firm growth that involve expanding the range of the firm?s business activities. We will study strategic logics underlying vertical integration, franchising, related and unrelated diversification, alliances, corporate venturing and spinouts, and other such strategies. We will also study the management challenges associated with these strategies, including designing organizational structures and managerial incentives, managing acquisitions, structuring supplier relationships, and fostering organizational cultures.		

GSM SI 835: Real Estate Management
		This is an introductory course that covers the basics of real estate investing and managing.  Subject materials include mortgages, lenders, forms of ownership, tax laws effecting real property, financial analysis and valuation techniques.		

GSM SI 836: Foundations of Environmental Sustainability
		This course introduces students to the Social Enterprise and Environmental  Sustainability sector. Firm actions have increasingly broad and visible social  consequences; private, non-profit, and public leaders need to be able to respond  to the challenges and opportunities that these consequences impart. In this  course, we will discuss a broad set of contexts, including "green" products,  renewable energy, carbon markets, and worker health and safety, unified by their  creation or destruction of social value. This course provides students with an  understanding of how the tools and concepts of business apply to contexts of  significant social value, where there are often externalities generated by firm  actions that call forth regulation and public policy, NGO activism, and consumer  attention. It explores how the social and environmental impact of firm actions  can provide both challenges and opportunities for firms to create and capture  value. 		

GSM SI 839: Design and Innovation Strategy
	This class will examine how managers and leaders can create the conditions for innovation at the individual, team and organizational levels ? and how those conditions differ for startup and mature organizations. Managing innovation includes the generation of ideas; the integration of  ideas into new product concepts; and the commercialization of ideas. While core strategy courses address the questions of what innovations to pursue and whether and when those innovations will bring value, this course addresses the question of how managers can create organizations to deliver innovations of value. Thus, the course will focus on the practices and processes that mangers need to put in place to enable organizations to execute on an innovation strategy. In doing so, students will evaluate how to balance the challenges of organizing, managing and leading innovation with the need to produce concrete, routine and expected outcomes within the organization.  To be innovative, any new idea must resolve the innovation paradox ? introducing enough novelty to appeal to new markets while retaining enough familiarity to tap into existing behaviors. Because design and innovation are frequently inseparable in managing this paradox, the class will assess how design contributes to innovation in product, process and business models across industry sectors.  The course will also consider the role that all sources of innovation play ? including communities, networks, brokers and other forms of open innovation.  Students will be asked to reflect upon innovations that have been critical to their lives, and how these innovations were produced and gained market traction. Final group projects will explore how to ?rescue? innovations in trouble with turnaround teams. 		

GSM SI 842: Real Estate Development
	The course provides a framework for evaluating the aspects underlying successful real estate development from concept and feasibility, through site control to regulatory review and construction.  The course is taught utilizing class discussion, cases and outside speakers to reinforce the functional areas in the development process.		

GSM SI 845: Technology Strategy
		Technology Strategy focuses on the interface between technological innovation   and strategic management.  This advanced strategy course covers the tools and   concepts needed to understand how technological change creates new markets and   new wealth; how technology-intensive industries differ from other industries;   and the type of capabilities that technology-based firms need at different   stages of their rapidly evolving industries. Some of the key topics covered   include: platform dynamics and business models, standards wars, technology   diffusion, technological discontinuities and disruptive innovation, models of   industry evolution, dominant technological designs, complementary assets needed   to profit from an innovation, and mechanisms to protect intellectual property.  The course provides a rigorous treatment of the topics covered, combined with   hands-on exercises and projects to help students apply the concepts to specific   companies and technologies. Teaching methodology is a combination of interactive   class discussions, online simulations, digital multimedia cases, paper-based   cases, and guest speakers from industry. The course has been designed to provide   students with a solid foundation of theories, tools, techniques and practices   that will allow them to understand how to compete successfully in technology-  intensive environments.		

GSM SI 852: Starting New Ventures
		This course focuses on the process of identifying and obtaining the necessary resources to launch an entrepreneurial venture through the development of a business plan. A well-written business plan will communicate the business concept in a way that attracts the various resource providers necessary for the venture?s success. Students will individually develop a business concept and prepare and present a professional business plan.		

GSM SI 855: Entrepreneurship
		The course is a comprehensive introduction to the entrepreneurial process from idea generation through venture launch and later growth.  Initial lectures and case studies focus on idea generation and concept feasibility along with the skills, competencies and perspectives entrepreneurs must develop to manage the organization through each phase of development. Later lectures and cases emphasize the issues faced by entrepreneurs in scaling innovative enterprises; use of strategic alliances, attracting funding and managing investors, managing growth expansion and choosing among exit options. 		

GSM SI 856: International Entrepreneurship
	This course focuses on international entrepreneurship, covering the development of skills to identify, evaluate, start and manage ventures that are international in scope. Specific topics will include market entry, forming alliances, managing growth and crossborder financing in different regions of the world. Support from local governments and the cultural, ethical, legal, and human resource issues facing the entrepreneur will also be discussed. Readings will primarily be in the form of case studies and will be supplemented with outside articles and guest speakers. Team projects addressing current events, international negotiations, and business strategies will be used to integrate the course material. 		

GSM SI 859: Strategy Implementation
		Gain the skills and know-how to manage up and across your organization, passing the normal organizational tests along the way from technical expert to cross-functional integrator to directing the future course of your organization. This is strategy implementation for the middle manager who needs to 1) size-up the situation and 2) determine how to gain the power needed to achieve their objectives. One of the qualitative factors that will be explored in great detail is personal style choice vis Ã&nbsp; vis different stakeholders and organizational politics and the resultant perceptions of you and your programs. Students will study both successful and less-successful managers through cases and readings, honing their own, personal managerial style.		

GSM SI 863: Strategic and Financial Analysis and Design
		The purpose of this course is to increase students' awareness of what they already know about business and what they can know through strategic corporate financial analysis. Students will use numeric thinking and documentation to reduce uncertainty and to bring the strategic and limiting factors of managerial decisions into focus. The course is appropriate for students who have financial savvy as well as those who want to develop their analytical capabilities. It is case-based, emphasizing business sense first, and developing through first-hand experience a sense of the strengths and limitations of corporate financial data, financial theory and strategic evaluation models. It stresses fast approximate analysis to achieve managerial insights over precise calculation. 		

GSM SI 870: Strategies for Sustainable Development
		Strategies for Sustainable Development is a broad and far-reaching course in  scope and topics. After an introduction to the concepts of the limits-  to- growth and global sustainability challenges resulting from population growth,    resource scarcity, environmental degradation and climate change students dive    deep into the cultural, societal and economic development issues of    globalization, study the implications of globalization on the current social and    economic development of nations/regions/industries and explore new development    models (for-profit and non-profit entrepreneurship) for sustainable development    at the international, national, and sub-national levels. The Course has three    major themes: 1) The first major theme of the course is a series of country   cases  that explore the cultural, social, political and economic context in   which  business enterprise has historically been conducted. 2) The second major   theme of  the course overlays the international institutions that emerged from   Bretton  Woods; the UN, GATT/WTO, the World Bank and the IMF, (the emerging   World  Environmental Organization, WEO) onto the country cases and explores   emerging  topics of international Intellectual Property Rights (IPR), Corporate   Social  Responsibility (CSR) and International Environmental Protection (IEP).   3) The  third major theme of the course explores the emergence of new models of    sustainable development; contrasting bottoms-ups collective action and    entrepreneurship against classic aid-based models as a force for change and    driver of sustainable development.		

GSM SI 871: Strategies for Bringing Technology to Market
	Strategies for Bringing Technology to Market is a unique course that guides student teams as they undertake commercial go-to-market strategy for scientific and engineering breakthroughs. By collaborating with faculty and graduate students in the University?s research labs and mentors from the business community, teams will assess the economic and social prospects of recent technology innovations, outline the technical and market risks and the key commercial milestones and make recommendations for the most effective commercialization strategy.    Project work is supported by lectures that focus on critical skills required.  Guidance will be provided in assessing critical commercialization milestones by a combination of faculty and mentors from the business community.		

GSM SI 917: Research Seminar in Technology Strategy and Innovation
	This doctoral seminar serves as a survey course to the broad area of technology and innovation management.  We will review and critique a large and diverse body of literature that can be considered "core" to the field.  We will place emphasis on both classic theories and seminal contributions as well as on recent research that builds upon or extends the established theories. One key differentiator of this research seminar is that five professors actively doing research in the field will teach it. While having multiple instructors brings some coordination challenges (these are less critical in doctoral seminars than they are in masters level classes), it has one major advantage: it allows each faculty to lead those sessions that deal with topics of her or his direct research expertise. Students can expect to cover each topic with researchers that have been important contributors to the intellectual debate in the topic they teach.  The seminar will cover key issues in the management of technology and innovation including innovation definitions and patterns (e.g. industry life cycle), entry timing strategies, platforms and standards, networks, dynamic capabilities, organizing for innovation, open and community-based innovation, licensing & patenting, technology diffusion, geography of innovation, and science and innovation policy. SI917 provides a solid base to critically explore many key topics of research in technology and innovation management. It is therefore aimed at doctoral students who plan to do research in technology and innovation management, or those who need a solid exposure to these topics to inform their research in related areas. 		

SMG AC 221: Financial Accounting
           			Basic concepts underlying financial statements and  accounting procedures used in  preparing statements of financial position, income  statements, and statements of  cash flow. Stresses the interpretation, analysis,  and evaluation of published  financial statements. 		

SMG AC 222: Managerial Accounting
           			Sophomore requirement. Introduces the basic principles, methods, and challenges of modern managerial accounting. Covers traditional topics such as job-order costing, cost-volume-profit analysis, budgeting and variance analysis, profitability analysis, relevant costs for decision making, and cost-plus pricing, as well as emerging topics such as Activity-Based Cost (ABC) accounting. The material is examined from the perspective of students preparing to use management accounting information as managers, to support decision making (such as pricing, product mix, sourcing, and technology decisions) and short- and long-term planning, and to measure, evaluate, and reward performance. Emphasizes the relationships between accounting techniques and other organizational activities (such as strategy and motivation).		

SMG AC 347: Intermediate Accounting I
           			Required for Accounting concentrators. Provides foundation for solving financial reporting issues through the study of the conceptual framework of accounting, recognition and measurement of current and non-current assets, revenue recognition, and the development of the income statement and balance sheet.		

SMG AC 348: Interm Acct 2
           			This course description is currently under construction.		

SMG AC 414: Financial Statement Analysis
           			Analysis of corporate financial statements. Includes profitability analysis, liquidity and solvency analysis, the incentives of management in corporate reporting, and the use of accounting information in efficient capital markets.		

SMG AC 430: Accounting Research
           			Develops and practices research skills required of an accounting professional.  Use accounting-related resources to research and understand accounting reporting issues and authoritative guidance for application of GAAP. 		

SMG AC 445: Advanced Managerial Accounting
           			Integrates knowledge from the fields of accounting, economics, and finance to investigate current issues related to management control, financial analysis and valuation, corporate governance, and strategic cost analysis.		

SMG AC 469: Principles of Income Taxation I
           			Federal income tax law common to all taxpayers: individuals, partnerships, and corporations. Tax returns for individuals. Topics include tax accounting, income to be included and excluded in returns, tax deductions, ordinary and capital gains and losses, inventories, installment sales, depreciation, bad debts, and other losses.		

SMG AC 498: Directed Study: Accounting
           			Directed study in Accounting. 2 or 4 cr.  Application available on Undergraduate  Program website.		

SMG AC 541: Advancd Accntng
           			This course description is currently under construction.		

SMG AC 565: Auditing
	Introduces the basic concepts  underlying auditing and assurance services  (including materiality, audit risk, and  evidence) and demonstrates how to apply  those concepts to audit and assurance  services through financial statement  audits.		

SMG AC 579: Principles of Income Taxation II
           			Certain common and special Federal tax laws for individuals, partnerships, corporations, estates, trusts, and miscellaneous entities. Topics include income tax returns for partnerships, business corporations, special corporations, decedents, estates, and trusts. Survey coverage of corporate liquidations, pension and profit-sharing plans, IRS audits, and estate and gift taxes. 		

SMG FE 101: Introduction to Finance
	Required of all SMG freshmen. Pre-req or co-req: SMG SM 131. (2 cr) This course  offers a rigorous overview of principles of finance, such as time value of  money, interest rates, basic valuation of cash flow streams, and basic stock and  bond valuation. It uses a combination of teaching materials including online  problem solving and case writing that will help the student through the  intensive syllabus. FE 101 and the redesigned FE 323 offer a comprehensive  overview of finance to SMG students.		

SMG FE 323: Financial Management
           			Component of SMG SM 323, The Cross Functional Core. Introduces students to the  themes of financial decision making: valuation and risk management. The focus is  on the problems of forecasting, capital budgeting, working capital management,  project risk management, and financing in a cross-functional context. A  semester-long business-plan project explores the interaction between marketing,  operations, management information systems, and finance decisions. The course  compares the financial objectives of the manager and the investor. Introduction  to the time value of money, securities valuation, portfolio diversification, and  the cost of capital. 		

SMG FE 427: International Financial Management
           			Required for International Management concentrators. Managing financial risk in the global environment. Introduction to foreign exchange markets, spot, forward, futures, options and swaps, and to the international bond and money markets. Discussion of market structure and participants, and main financial instruments. Analyzes and discusses tools of currency risk management.		

SMG FE 429: Futures, Options, and Financial Risk Management
           			Covers the theory of futures pricing and option pricing, and applies the theory to develop a framework for analyzing hedging and investment decisions using futures and options. Attention is paid to practical considerations in the use of these instruments, especially in financial risk management. 		

SMG FE 442: Money, Financial Markets, and Economic Activity
           			Required for Finance concentrators. The financial system and its functions. The role of money and the importance of interest rates in determining economic activity; determinants of level of interest rates. Operation of central banks; the goals and instruments of monetary policy. The roles, activities, and risk management of financial institutions. Instruments traded in money and capital markets, and their valuation. Role of derivative securities; systemic risk and other contemporary issues in the financial system		

SMG FE 445: Investment Analysis and Portfolio Management
           			Required for Finance concentrators. Introduction to the investment management process. Defining investment objectives and constraints. Introduction to Modern Portfolio Theory, CAPM, APT, Efficient Markets, stock and bond valuation models. Immunizing interest-rate risk. Active vs. passive investment strategies, fundamental vs. technical analysis, trading practices, and performance evaluation. Introduction to the role of futures and options in hedging and speculation. Students are expected to become familiar with current events in the financial news. 		

SMG FE 449: Corporate Financial Management
           			Required for Finance concentrators. Covers the financial manager's role in obtaining and allocating funds. Includes topics such as cash budgeting, working capital analysis, dividend policy, capital investment analysis and debt policy as well as their associated risks. Valuation of companies, mergers and acquisitions, and bankruptcy are covered. The course requires using financial models and spreadsheets. Applications are made to current events and everyday business finance problems.  		

SMG FE 450: Private Equity: Leveraged Buyouts
           			Exposes students to, and demystifies, the world of Private Equity (PE). The focus is centered on LBOs and their position in the "alternative asset" class. Students learn about the activities of a PE firm including formation, fund-raising, investing (including deal structure, terms, due diligence, and governance), and exiting. Also discussed are what other industry sectors serve or are affected by PE and who the players are. Case study and class participation will be the primary modes of learning.		

SMG FE 454: Investment Banking
           			Provides an overview of the  economic functions provided by investment banks including a history of the industry, current events, public policy issues and the difference between large, full service investment banks and smaller, boutique firms.  Topics include: What do investment bankers do?  What are the different types of analyses performed by investment bankers? What are the various types of financial securities?  What is the underwriting process and how are securities priced?   Focuses on the issuing process and pricing for equity, fixed income, and equity-linked securities.  Also focuses on the role of investment banks in mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, and other restructuring.  Additional topics include equity research, capital markets, institutional sales, trading, asset management, securitization, industry regulations, as well as typical career paths and opportunities.		

SMG FE 455: Financing New Ventures
           			Students will be expected to have mastered key finance concepts including cash flow analysis, NPV, IRR and basic option pricing theory prior to entering the course. Introduction to raising "angel" funding and venture capital financing for start-up firms.  Focus on capital structure analysis, capitalization tables, payoff diagrams, term sheets, equity incentives and negotiating with investors.   Students are expected to prepare case studies for class discussion and become familiar with current events in the financial news about start-up company financings.		

SMG FE 456: Fixed Income Analysis
           			Covers the analytic techniques used in fixed-income markets to value and measure  risk on traditional fixed-rate bonds, floating-rate notes, bonds having embedded  options (callable and putable bonds), structured notes, and interest rate  derivatives used to manage bond portfolios (primarily interest rate swaps, caps,  and floors). Extensive use is made of Excel spreadsheet analysis, including the  development of a binomial term structure model to value securities. Focus is on  the impact of counterparty and issuer credit risk in fixed-income valuation.  4  cr.		

SMG FE 469: Real Estate Finance
           			Provides an introduction to and an understanding of real estate finance. Draws  together and considers major functional areas including: structuring, ownership,  finance, taxation, property valuation and analysis. The course provides a  framework for decision making in the real estate investment and finance fields.  The course is specifically designed to offer students interested in real estate  careers a foundation from which to build. 4 cr.		

SMG FE 498: Directed Study: Finance
           			Directed study in Finance. 2 or 4 cr.  Application available on Undergraduate  Program website.		

SMG IM 345: International Management Environment
           			Required for International Management concentrators. Deals with international  economic theories and explores the intersection between theory and practice.  Examines the determinants of international trade and payments including  international trade theory and policy and balance-of-payments accounting.  Explores the implications of trade-promoting and trade-inhibiting institutions  and practices: WTO, NAFTA, European Union, etc. Introduces cultural, political,  and demographic issues for international managers. 		

SMG IM 445: International Management Policy
           			This is heavily case-based course studying the business strategies of multi- national enterprises, particularly in high-growth and developing economies.  Having worldwide operations not only gives companies access to new markets and  diverse resources, it also opens up new sources of information and knowledge  that stimulate innovation and operational strategies. Along with opportunities,  we also look at the challenges to a more complex, diverse, and uncertain  business than those faced by companies who focus primarily in their mature  markets or even their own country. This course helps students to acquire skills  and perspectives that will help them as they pursue careers with multi-national  companies or other opportunities in the global business environment.		

SMG IM 498: Directed Study: International Management
           			Directed study in International Management. 2 or 4 cr.  Application available on  Undergraduate Program website.		

SMG IS 223: Introduction to Information Systems
           			Provides students with an understanding of the important role that information and information technology play in supporting the effective operation and management of business. Elaborates on the themes of "place to space" and the implications for business of the digital enterprise. Focuses on learning IS concepts in the context of application to real business problems.		

SMG IS 323: Intro Info Syst
           			This course description is currently under construction.		

SMG IS 428: Managing Information Security
           			Combines technical and business approaches to the management of information. It will address technical issues such as cryptography, intrusion detection, and firewalls along with managerial ideas such as overall security policies, managing uncertainty and risk, and organization factors. We will examine different aspects of computer security such as password, virus protection, and managing computer security in dynamic environments. Topics will also include network security and how to secure wireless application and services. These technical details will be placed in a business context. The class will have a practical focus as we examine current "best practices" in area. There will be several guest speakers in the security area. This will be a project-oriented class and students will present their research projects during the last several classes. 4 cr. 		

SMG IS 465: Managing Data Resources
           			Required for Management Information Systems concentrators. Provides a practical and theoretical introduction to data management focusing on the use of relational database technology and SQL to manage an organization's data and information. Introduces recent topics such as data warehouses and Web databases. Includes a project to design and implement a relational database to manage an organization's data. 4 cr.		

SMG IS 467: Networking and Data Communications
           			Required for Management Information Systems concentrators. Introduces technologies, policies, and management and organizational concepts critical to understanding the role of data communications in a rapidly changing business and social environment. The materials focus on: the data communications industry; core technologies including mobile technology and the wireless Internet; management and use of communications technologies; policies; and organizational issues.		

SMG IS 469: Designing Information Systems
           			Required for Management Information Systems concentrators. Studies the process of designing and implementing management information systems. Students will learn to analyze organizational information requirements, develop specifications for information systems, manage systems development projects, and understand implementation issues. Key implementation concepts that affect management decisions will be discussed, and reenforced with programming examples. Design support tools will be used to support the design process. Includes a project to design an information system.		

SMG IS 472: Electronic Commerce
           			The Internet has brought about significant change in the way business is conducted. The rules and business models, however, for the new economy are still in their infancy. This course provides a grounding in the concepts of electronic commerce, and then moves to an examination of the emergent and emerging business models. The IT/IS infrastructure that supports these various business models is addressed, particularly architecting systems including privacy and security issues. 		

SMG IS 479: Innovating with Information Technology
           			Surveys the organizational implementation, uses, and impacts of advanced information technology including decision support systems, management support systems, and expert systems. Includes a group project to design and develop a decision support system. 		

SMG IS 498: Directed Study: Management Information Systems
SMG LA 245: Introduction to Law
           			Provides a broad overview of the American judicial system and fundamental legal issues. Examines dispute resolution, torts, contracts, criminal law, business organizations, employment law, intellectual property, and international law. The goal is to understand not only the basic rules of law but also the underlying social policies and ethical dilemmas. 4 cr.		

SMG LA 346: Law and Ethics
           			Explores ideas of right and wrong, and how the law interacts with our morality. Examines contemporary social problems, such as whistle-blowing, business liability for crime, same-sex marriage, affirmative action, and bribery, from the perspective of the law. Also focuses on ethical issues facing businesses, such as leadership in a crisis, prosecution of corporations, and current events. Students read Supreme Court decisions, nonfiction accounts of litigation, and case studies, as well as watch films, in an effort to understand the law and analyze our ethical response to contemporary social issues. 4 cr. 		

SMG LA 349: Intellectual Property, the Internet, and Public Policy
           			Intellectual Property, the Internet, and Public Policy explores the complex  relationship between law and the Internet. Course readings introduce students to  modes of Internet regulation, the legal framework erected in the U.S. to shield  websites from liability for third-party content and conduct, and issues arising  from extraterritorial application of geographic-based law. The course then uses  legal disputes over intellectual property--primarily copyright, but also  trademarks and patents--to illustrate how various stakeholders use lawsuits,  legislation, and other modes of regulation to shape public policy and govern  human behavior. Through research of specific online companies student teams will  study how law affects business decisions, how public policy influences legal  doctrines, and how changes in public policy might alter their target business's  prospects. The course culminates in team papers and presentations that tie each  team's analysis of their target company to the course's major themes.		

SMG LA 355: Employment Law and Public Policy
           			An in-depth look at the legal issues involved in the employer/employee relationship. Such topics include: discrimination, affirmative action, harassment, the hiring process, employee testing, and terminating employees (for cause, layoffs). Discussions will focus on the duties and rights of both parties through the stages of employment, from hiring and managing your workforce, to benefits, conditions of employment, and downsizing.		

SMG LA 360: Real Estate Law
           			Real estate can generate spectacular wealth and contribute to unprecedented financial losses. Real estate is an essential component of every business that requires a physical location to operate. Real estate is where we sleep, where we attend school, where we work, where we play, where we go when we are sick -it quite literally is beneath everything we do. Every real estate transaction begins and ends with legal principles. Mastering the basics of property law puts one in a superior position. Knowledge of real estate law is imperative for those who plan to invest in or manage property on a larger scale. This course provides an overview of real estate law for tenants, present and future property owners, developers, investors, and public policy advocates. We examine the nature of real property and property ownership, residential and commercial real estate transactions, and selected issues of real estate development.		

SMG LA 430: Entertainment Law
           			(Offered in Los Angeles) Covers the basics of entertainment law, including constitutional, contracts, labor, and employment law and intellectual property rights. Students develop a clear understanding of the applicable laws and how these laws have been applied in the past, how they are applied today, and how they might be amended and applied in the future. Students learn applicable legal concepts, practical insights, and an appreciation of how to deal with lawyers and the law in their entertainment business futures. It is intended to provide a good conceptual understanding of the law and demonstrate its relevance through case study, reading, guest speakers, field trips, and intense discussion. The application of the law to the digital now, the digital future and the Internet now crucial, indeed central, to any discussion of entertainment will be included throughout and be the subject of an entire class toward the end of the course. The law to be explored will be constitutional, copyright, trademark, contracts, labor, employment, and remedies and their application to and use within the entertainment business.		

SMG LA 450: Advanced Business Law
           			Takes a closer look at the legal issues surrounding businesses, from purchasing contracts, rights and responsibilities for breaches of those contracts, commercial financing, the Uniform Commercial Code, bankruptcy, products liability, real estate and more. The emphasis is on understanding legal issues as a component of good business planning. Group work to draft contracts and leases and negotiate terms. 		

SMG LA 498: LAW Dir Study
           			Directed study in Law. 2 or 4 cr.  Application available on Undergraduate Program website.		

SMG MK 323: Marketing Management
           			Component of SMG SM 323, The Cross Functional Core. Introduces students to the field of marketing management: analysis, planning and implementation of marketing strategies as the means for achieving an organization's objectives. Students analyze cases and participate in workshops that focus on key marketing management tasks: marketing research, consumer behavior, segmentation and targeting, sales forecasting, product and brand management, distribution channels, pricing, and promotion and advertising strategies. A semester-long business plan project explores the interactions and the cross functional integrations between marketing, operations, information systems, and finance. 4 cr.		

SMG MK 435: Introduction to the Music Business and Music Marketing
           			Survey of the music industry with a focus on understanding of its structure and the intersection of business and music. Discusses key areas of music marketing, including opportunities for musicians, including publicity, advertising, promotion (online and traditional), digital distribution, touring, licensing/synch, and radio.		

SMG MK 445: Consumer Behavior
           			Provides insight into the motivations, influences, and processes underlying consumption behavior. Considers relevant behavioral science theories/frameworks and their usefulness in formulating and evaluating marketing strategies (i.e., segmentation, positioning, product development, pricing, communications). 		

SMG MK 447: Marketing Research
           			Required for Marketing concentrators. Introduces tools and techniques of marketing research as an aid to marketing decision making. Definition of research problems, selection of research methodologies, design of research projects, interpretation of research results, and translation of research results into action. 		

SMG MK 449: Business Marketing
           			Explores in-depth the unique aspects of marketing to business and institutional customers in an increasingly complex, competitive and global marketplace. Exposes students to a wide range of industrial products and services, and the technology, demand, competition, and requirements for success that characterize each of them. Topics include marketing strategy, organizational buyer behavior, business market segmentation, market development, product development, B -to-B e-commerce, pricing, marketing channels, and business marketing communications, in the context of the U.S. as well as global markets. The course is taught through lectures, case discussions, and presentations and is designed to develop the analytical, decision-making, and communication skills of the students. 4 cr.		

SMG MK 463: Services Marketing and Management
           			Covers topics relating to customer service management and focuses on the role of marketing in managing services. Also covered are human resource, information management, operational, and financial overlaps with marketing throughout the course. Focuses on services, though there will be discussion of how services support products as well. Includes an applied service marketing team project for a real organization (for an organization which has requested a student team to address its customer service issues). The final deliverable for this project is a team consulting project for the organization and a final consulting report presentation to the class and the organization's representative(s). 		

SMG MK 465: Retailing and Online Distribution
           			Provides insights into all phases of retail and the inter-dynamics of today's  retail organizations.  It emphasizes the importance of retail strategy, analysis and execution in the retail environment.   Students will examine financial, operations and marketing decisions that are critical to retailers and their success.		

SMG MK 467: International Marketing Management
           			(Also offered in London in the spring semester)  Helps students develop a critical appreciation of both the opportunities and challenges associated with the increasing globalization of markets.  Students will learn about the key environmental forces shaping consumer needs and preferences, the influence of international competition, market segmentation and strategy decisions specific to international marketing.  They will:  * Assess various foreign markets  * Analyze the impact of cultural, social, political and economic factors on marketing strategies  * Determine when to use different market entry and penetration strategies  * Examine the different skills and systems required to implement marketing strategies across country borders 4 cr. 		

SMG MK 468: Advanced Marketing Strategy
           			Provides the insight and skills necessary to formulate and implement sound marketing strategies and marketing plans. The course includes case analysis, guest speakers and a marketing management simulation where students take the role of brand manager. The simulation allows students to make decisions and see results on key topics such as segmentation, positioning, managing a brand portfolio, integrated marketing communications, and marketing channels. Other key topics explored in the course include strategic planning, customer decision making, life cycle, market response, competitive behavior, new product development, and product line management.		

SMG MK 469: Communications and Digital Media Strategies
           			Marketing communication strategy has moved beyond advertising to include    interactive marketing, sales promotions, direct marketing, public relations, and more. This course focuses on developing a marketing communication strategy that    integrates these tools for more efficient and effective communication. Topics    include the establishment of objectives based on a situation analysis,    developing subsequent messages, creative and media strategies, effectiveness    testing, and client/agency relationships.		

SMG MK 470: Pricing Strategy and Tactics
           			Focuses on the practical needs of the marketing manager when making pricing  decisions. Students learn the techniques of strategic analysis necessary to price  more profitably by evaluating the price sensitivity of buyers, determining  relevant costs, anticipating and influencing competitors' pricing, and  formulating an appropriate pricing strategy. 		

SMG MK 486: Digital Marketing Strategy
SMG MK 487: Branding
           			Explores the art and science of branding, and the strategies through which companies can create, capture, and sustain shareholder value through brands. Through a mixture of theory and real-world cases, the course examines brands from the perspectives of the cultures and consumers who help create them, and the companies who manage them over time. Basic branding disciplines including positioning and repositioning, brand equity measurement, brand leverage, integrated brand communications, brand stewardship, and brand architecture are considered, as are more contemporary topics such as brand parodies, brand community, and branded entertainment. Particular attention is paid to branding challenges associated with today's interconnected, consumer-empowered, and transparent web-enabled world.  4 cr.		

SMG MK 498: Directed Study: Marketing
           			Directed study in Marketing. 2 or 4 cr.  Application available on Undergraduate Program website.		

SMG OB 221: The Dynamics of Leading Organizations
           			Sophomore requirement. This is an experiential learning-based course that studies what people think, feel and do in organizational settings, focusing on individual, interpersonal, group and organizational processes. The primary objective is to help students understand and manage organizational dynamics as effectively as possible. This is done through: analysis of readings; reflecting on hands-on, real-time experiences in organizations and in teamwork here; practice opportunities in class sessions, creative applications and team exercises; and papers written by students and teams. The readings, discussions and lectures provide students with abstract knowledge about organizational behavior processes and structures; the semester-long "OB Team" experiences, working together as an intact team to address real-world problems, will provide skill-building opportunities to help manage one's own and others' behavior in teams and organizations in the future. Major topics include personality, motivation, team dynamics, leadership and organizational change.  SMG students must take concurrently with SM411. 4 cr.		

SMG OB 441: Human Resource Management
           			Required for Organizational Behavior concentrators.  Introduces students to the field of human resource management (HRM). Emphasizes the strategic importance of effective human resource management to the success of any organization. Specific topics covered include: job design and workforce planning, recruiting and selection, training and development, performance management and rewards, employee and labor relations, and retention. Particular attention is paid to the ways in which organizations' strategies and practices around these issues contribute to the strategic objectives of the organization. Individual and group projects enable students to develop skills in making decisions from both the human resource manager's and the general manager's perspectives. 4 cr.		

SMG OB 442: Leading High Performance Teams and Project Groups
           			Provides an opportunity for students to develop an in-depth understanding of creating, leading and maintaining high performance teams - and in particular, project groups that have clearly defined goals and deliverables.  Students will learn to structure and organize high performance teams, develop and practice team interventions, and use teams effectively in organizational contexts. 4 cr.		

SMG OB 444: Managing in a Global Environment
           			Examines the many dimensions of managing people and organizations in a global context. The focus is understanding, leading and managing in an organization that spans multiple countries and regions.  Topics include, managing global systems, processes and procedures,  and valuing and leveraging cultural differences, managing cross-cultural and virtual teams.  In addition students will have the opportunity to structure and engage in real time global projects and interact with managers and leaders from around the world. 4 cr.		

SMG OB 448: Negotiations
           			Focuses on the problems and possibilities of effective negotiations, conflict management, and power and influence at work and in other settings. Emphasizes developing both intellectual knowledge of approaches to negotiation, conflict and organizational influences and practical skills in applying that knowledge to various situations. 4 cr.		

SMG OB 456: Leadership and Management of Social Enterprises
           			A well-managed social enterprise can translate idealism into action.   It can  help create a world that is more sustainable, more compassionate, and more just.   This course will explore the distinctive aspects of launching, leading, and  growing an enterprise -- nonprofit or for-profit -- whose primary goal is social  impact.  We will study mission, strategy, cause marketing, social  entrepreneurship, and scaling.  We will learn that success for social enterprise  is driven less by a compelling story or a charismatic advocate than by diligent  management and insightful leadership.  The course will use a variety of lively  in-class learning activities and assignments, including debates, role plays,  case studies, site visits, and guest experts.  All students will conduct a  research project on a social enterprise of their choice, culminating in a paper  and presentation.		

SMG OB 460: The Leadership Challenge
           			Required for Organizational Behavior concentrators. Explores the nature of leadership in theory and practice with the perspective that leaders are needed at all levels of organizations. The course design is experiential and reflects the idea that leadership skills are built not only from reading and studying leadership theories and cases, but more importantly, from actively engaging in activities that push students to develop new, more effective leadership capabilities. Students are immediately engaged in the real work of leaders through our innovative and exciting leadership challenge initiatives. 4 cr.		

SMG OB 498: Directed Study: Organizational Behavior
           			Directed study in Organizational Behavior. 2 or 4 cr.  Application available on Undergraduate Program website.		

SMG OM 323: Operations Management
           			Component of SMG SM 323, The Cross Functional Core. Focuses on the elements of operations management that are of particular importance in the context of new product development. These include: product and process design, process analysis, supply chain configuration, inventory management, and capacity and production planning. A semester-long business plan explores the interaction between operations management and marketing, information systems, and finance decisions. 4 cr.		

SMG OM 440: Operations Strategy
           			Explores the ability of an organization's operations to satisfy its strategic requirements by investigating the influence of decisions made about the structure capacities, facilities, technology, and vertical integration and infrastructure workforces, quality, production planning and control, and organization of an organization's operations and its capabilities. These decisions are considered in the context of different types of performance improvement plans organizations use: quality management, lean, reengineering, supply chain management, strategic alliances, and performance management. 4 cr.		

SMG OM 441: Operations Analysis
           			Presents tools and modeling frameworks that are relevant to solving today's supply chain problems. The class is a mixture of case discussions, lectures, games, and outside speakers. Case discussions cover subjects including designing new-product supply chains, optimizing inventory levels, quick response, and capacity management. Lectures provide the theoretical foundation for the course; the major subjects are inventory theory and forecasting. Although the course is not overly focused on mathematics, enough detail will be provided so that students can apply the material in practice. Games including the distribution game, the OPT game, and the Beer Game reinforce the concepts in a constructive way. Finally, outside speakers present real-world examples of how supply chain models are being developed in practice. This course is designed for students that will be working in consulting or supply chain management after graduation. For students majoring in areas like Finance or Marketing, it is a solid exposure to an area that is integral to any product-focused company. 4 cr.		

SMG OM 447: Operations Management in Service Sector
           			Introduces students to the special challenges of designing and managing service operations. The course focusses on the problems and opportunities presented by the presence of the customer in the operation which creates and delivers the service; on professional service operations; and on systematic ways to improve performance in service operations. Students carry out a small project developing a new service and the operation which will deliver it. The course demonstrates that a service manager must combine operations, marketing, and human resource skills into an integrated service system general manager approach. The course incorporates the following topics: service strategy, service system design, service quality, professional service operations, improvement programs in services, and multisite service operations. 		

SMG OM 453: Project Management
           			Focuses on project management from two perspectives. First, the course explores management of projects on a day-to-day basis at the functional, operational level, dealing with the management of tasks, resources, risks and timelines within an individual project. The course also covers project management on a more strategic level, program management, which identifies linkages between and among a portfolio of projects at the business unit or firm level. The course covers the tools, techniques, roles, and responsibilities that are critical in managing programs effectively and managing projects to completion.		

SMG OM 465: Improving Quality: Six Sigma Certification
           			Six Sigma quality programs help companies deliver near-perfect products and services. People trained as Six Sigma experts are highly sought after on the job market. This course makes students proficient in Six Sigma including its underlying philosophies, tools (for example, statistical process control), and implementation. This course certifies students as Six Sigma Green Belts and is also designed to prepare students so that when they complete one or more quality improvement projects in a post-BU career, they will be ready to test for a "Black Belt."		

SMG OM 467: Global Supply Management
           			Develops an understanding of the nature of international problems associated with the supply, distribution, and sourcing of products. Issues such as the operational support of market development in foreign countries, international sourcing, country analysis, and the management of supply and distribution activities are covered. A team project is required. 4 cr.		

SMG OM 498: Directed Study in Operations and Technology Management
           			Directed study in Operations and Technology Management. 2 or 4 cr.  Application available on Undergraduate Program website.		

SMG PL 430: The U.S. Healthcare System in Transition
	Prereq: SMG SM 299 or SMG SM131 and FE101, SMG LA 245 and junior standing. Open   to non-SMG students with junior standing and a minor in business with consent of   the instructor. The U.S. healthcare system is undergoing sweeping change as a   result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010.  Knowledge of   how the reform law is affecting healthcare organizations, health professionals,   consumers, and American businesses is essential for everyone, especially those   planning careers in management or business. This rigorous Law and Public Policy   seminar provides an in-depth look at the economic, political and organizational   challenges facing the nation as major reforms are implemented, including the   creation of state health insurance marketplaces, the formation of accountable   care organizations, and new methods of paying hospitals and physicians. Students   read and analyze articles, business cases, issue briefs, and legal opinions from   diverse perspectives to learn how the U.S. healthcare system came to be and how   it will change in the future.		

SMG PL 498: Directed Study in Markets, Public Policy, and Law
SMG QM 450: Business Analytics
           			Improves students' ability to think logically about and to structure complex managerial problems; and to develop Excel-based spreadsheet models that can be used to significantly improve managerial decision-making. The course is taught almost entirely by example, using problems from the main functional areas of business: Finance, Operations, and Marketing. Students learn about the two main types of modeling approaches: optimization models which can help find the "best" solution, and simulation models which allow explicit consideration of risk trade-offs associated with alternatives. 4 cr.		

SMG SI 422: Strategy and Policy
           			Provides students with a powerful set of tools which will prepare them to analyze, formulate, and implement business firm strategy with the aim of attaining sustainable competitive advantage. Adopts the perspective of the general manager, challenging student knowledge in each functional area in the effort to create integrative strategies that serve the needs of shareholders, as well as other stakeholders inside and outside the company. The course includes conceptual readings, which elucidate the fundamental concepts and frameworks of strategic management, as well as case analyses, which enable students to apply their knowledge to real-world situations and managerial decisions. The course culminates with a final project, which requires student teams to perform a complete strategic analysis on a public company, considering its industry environment and dynamics, its strategic positioning and internal resources, and proposing a course of action for the firm to respond to its strategic challenges. 4 cr.		

SMG SI 430: The Multidisciplinary Sustainable Energy Practicum
           			Pre-reqs: SMG SM131 or SM121/122 or SM299; CAS GE150; ENG EK225.  Required course for the Undergraduate Minor in Sustainable Energy. Serves as the capstone project providing students with a multidisciplinary experience that applies ALL three disciplines on the Undergraduate Minor in Sustainable Energy, i.e. Business, Environmental Sciences and Engineering. The practicum is offered in conjunction with a "sponsoring company" to provide students with a hands-on experience with a real-world sustainable energy project. 4 cr.		

SMG SI 435: Entertainment Management
           			(Offered in Los Angeles) Surveys the application of management concepts and principles to the film, television, video, new media and music industry. This course examines administration and finance, development, production, and distribution, and introduces students to the organizations and people (such as studios, independent production companies, talent managers, and agents) who manage, invest, and eventually profit in this creative industry. Much of the class time is spent in discussion of current entertainment industry trends. Students gain the skills to achieve their own entertainment goals. 4 cr.  		

SMG SI 438: Talent Representation and Management
           			(Offered in Los Angeles) Using case studies and business models, students examine the manner in which critical players interact and attempt to work together in behalf of clients in an effort to make their "professional dreams" come to fruition. Participants will gain an understanding of the different areas of talent representation, how each one functions in the scope of a talent's career and what the responsibilities are for each position in each area of representation. Participants will also gain a clear view of what the business of Entertainment Representation has to offer as a chosen career. 4 cr.		

SMG SI 444: Entrepreneurship
           			Addresses the specifics of planning a business startup or expanding and altering an existing small business, including the feasibility of ideas, market definition, management, and operations and financing requirements. This is a hands-on, experiential learning course requiring integration of previous coursework into a coherent, realistic business plan. Helps students assess and develop their own particular idea and to consider the appropriateness for them of entrepreneurship as a career choice. 4 cr.		

SMG SI 445: Small Business Management
           			Designed to help students understand the intricacies of running a small company. The course addresses the major problem areas in smaller companies, including valuation, negotiation, deal structure, personnel and compensation, and marketing and financing. Exposes students to a wide range of business activities, emphasizing significant differences between large and small enterprises. The course uses a competitive computer simulation to provide students with the opportunity to "run" their own business. 4 cr.		

SMG SI 451: Organizing for Design and Innovation
           			This course examines how managers and leaders can create the conditions for innovation at the individual, team and organizational levels and how those conditions differ for startup and mature organizations. Managing innovation includes the generation of ideas; the integration of those ideas into new product concepts; and the commercialization of those ideas. While core strategy courses address the questions of what innovations to pursue and whether and when those innovations will bring value, this course addresses the question of how managers can create organizations to deliver sustainable innovations of value. 4 credits.  (Spring 2011 pilot course)		

SMG SI 453: Strategies for Environmental Sustainability
	Can firms increase both environmental performance and profitability? Sometimes,  but not always. In this course, we consider how and when firms can respond  to growing demands for improved environmental performance and disclosure (from  customers, NGO, activists, and regulators) in a way that also improves the long  term financial performance of the firm. Through case studies and current news  articles across a variety of contexts (consumer products, food services, energy  service companies, and renewable energy), mini-lectures, and a team project  working with the BU Sustainability Office, this course provides exposure to many  topics related to sustainability and provides hands-on experience with the  analytical tools and thinking required to evaluate the business case for  sustainability.		

SMG SI 469: Real Estate Development
           			Real estate development is a process rather than a product. Too often, assumptions about occupancy, market absorption, rental income growth, valuation and competition are based on guesswork and interest in specific product types. The course reviews the underlying demographic market data that drives demand; utilizing data such as population and job growth, market and marketability analysis. The focus then shifts to site selection and feasibility analysis, the available methods of gaining site control and the process of assembling the professional team. Later, the course reviews the regulatory control process, along with budgeting and contract award and review of the construction control processes. The course is introductory in nature and assumes students have little or no knowledge about the development process. 4 cr.		

SMG SI 471: International Entrepreneurship
           			Designed for students who may at some point be interested in pursuing managerial careers in the international entrepreneurial sector, and covers the development of skills to identify, evaluate, start, and manage ventures that are international in scope. Over the course of the semester, the class "travels" to more than fifteen countries on five continents, and analyze operations at each stage of the entrepreneurial process. The course covers market entry, forming alliances, negotiations, managing growth, and cross-border financing. Support from local governments, and the cultural, ethical, legal, and human resource issues facing the entrepreneur is also covered. 4 cr.		

SMG SI 480: The Business of Technology Innovation
	Open only to seniors and juniors in the College of Engineering. SMG students cannot take this course for degree credit. Provides an introduction to entrepreneurship and business for the engineer. Topics include finding business ideas; recognizing good from bad; understanding the importance of business model; turning technology into a business, including what to sell and how to sell it; the role of engineering within a business; business financial statements; and startups and venture capital, including starting a company or joining a startup. 4 cr.		

SMG SI 482: Strategy for Technology-Based Firms
           			Serves SMG students concentrating in entrepreneurship or who are interested in high-technology sectors, and ENG students who have taken SMG SI480. This course covers technology life-cycles, the co-evolution of industries and technologies, strategies for commercialization of new technologies (appropriability, acquiring complementary assets and capabilities, managing technical teams, and impact of regulatory and other environmental factors on commercialization). Special emphasis is placed on joint learning and interdisciplinary teamwork by students across ENG and SMG. 4 cr.		

SMG SI 498: Directed Study in Strategy and Innovation
           			Directed study in Strategy and Innovation. 2 or 4 cr.  Application available on Undergraduate Program website.		

SMG SM 108: Career Management Seminar I
	SMG freshmen only. Required for all SMG freshmen. Provides an overview of  individual career management. It is the first course in a School of Management  yearly progression designed to equip students with the necessary knowledge, tools,  and skills needed to explore career opportunities and build a foundation of career  management capabilities.  Students will also develop an SMG-approved resume.		

SMG SM 131: Business, Society, and Ethics
	Required of all SMG freshmen. Students will explore the ethical problems facing  global management. Through identification and discussion of the substantive  disciplines relevant to business, students will uncover a complicated analysis  necessary to make appropriate decisions and will highlight their  interdependencies. This course stresses written and oral communication skills  and logical reasoning as an ingredient for sound analysis and rational business  planning. The course stresses teamwork because at the heart of modern management  is the need to collaborate with others and to organize, motivate, and monitor  teams of diverse people to accomplish shared goals. 4 cr.		

SMG SM 151: Creating Value in the Global Economy
           			Prereq: SM131; SMG students only. Required of all SMG freshmen. Designed to  provide deep immersion into the forces shaping the new global economy while  providing students with a platform from which to practice the critical business  skills of writing, oral presentation and persuasion. Using the World Economic  Forum as a backdrop, student will engage in independent inquiry, writing and  debate focused on the digital technology, social enterprise and sustainability  and health and life sciences sectors of the new economy. Through in-class  discussion, lecture and small group work students will become familiar with the  concepts of value creation and stakeholder theory and develop integrative,  critical thinking and persuasion skills. 2 cr.		

SMG SM 208: Career Management Seminar II
	SMG sophomores only. Taken concurrently by SMG sophomores with SMG OB 221.  Builds upon SM 108 to provide students with fundamental tools to assist them  with individual career management.  It is the second course in the School of  Management's four year career management curriculum.  Importantly, as  sophomores, students will begin to chart their career path, work with The Feld  Career Center (FCC), practice interviewing, develop a search strategy, and  continue to build their personal "brand."  		

SMG SM 209: Career Management Seminar II (Intensive)
	For students who did not begin as SMG freshmen.  Combines the content of SM 108  and SM 208.  Provides an overview of individual career management. Equips  students with the necessary knowledge, tools, and skills needed to build a  foundation of career management capabilities.  Students will begin to chart  their career path, work with the Feld Career Center (FCC), practice  interviewing, develop a search strategy, and continue to build their personal  "brand."		

SMG SM 221: Probabilistic and Statistical Decision Making for Management
           			Exposes students to the fundamentals of probability, decision analysis, and  statistics, and their application to business. Topics include probability,  decision analysis, distributions, sampling, estimation, hypothesis testing, and  chi-square. Please note: Students may not receive credit for both SMG SM 221 and  CAS EC 305, or SMG SM 221 and CAS EC 203. 		

SMG SM 222: Modeling Business Decisions and Market Outcomes
           			Sophomore requirement. Examines the use of economic and statistical tools for  making business decisions. Topics include optimization (including linear  programing), multiple regression, demand modeling, cost modeling, industry  analysis (including models of perfect competition, monopoly, and oligopoly), and  game theory. The course emphasizes modeling with spreadsheets.		

SMG SM 321: Analytics
           			SMG SM 321: Analytics Component of SMG SM 323, The Cross Functional Core.  This course will improve  students' ability to structure and think about complex business problems.  Students will gain hands-on experience with spreadsheet modeling in Excel and  will develop a toolkit of quantitative skills that will help them make informed  decisions in an uncertain world. Students will learn how to build models for  decision-making, how these models are used to identify the best choice from a  range of options, and how the best choice may change in response to changes in  the model's parameters. The course will also provide an introduction to  simulation analysis and the measurement and management of risk. The course will  cover several applications relevant to aspects of the Cross-Functional Core  project. 4 cr. 		

SMG SM 333: Business Plan
	Taken as part of the Cross-Functional Core.  Pass/Fail.  1 cr.		

