SPH BS 704: Introduction to Biostatistics
	This course meets the biostatistics core course requirement for all degrees and concentrations at SPH. The course replaces BS701 and BS703.  Topics include the collection, classification, and presentation of descriptive data; the rationale of estimation and hypothesis testing; analysis of variance; analysis of contingency tables; correlation and regression analaysis; multiple regression, logistic regression, and the statistical control of confounding; sample size and power considerations; survival analysis.  Special attention is directed to the ability to recognize and interpret statistical procedures in articles from the current literature. This course gives students the skills to perform, present, and interpret basic statistical analyses using the R statistical package.		

SPH BS 715: Practical Skills for Biostatistics Collaboration
		This course will focus on skills required for effective research collaboration with investigators from various disciplines. Emphasis will be on the development of skills to communicate effectively with biostatistician and non‐biostatisticians collaborators, to write data collection and statistical analysisplans for grants, and/or publications, and to organize results in appropriate visual displays or tables. Other issues, including techniques to work efficiently in multi‐disciplinary research teams (e.g.,constructing timelines and deliverables) will also be discussed.		

SPH BS 720: Introduction to R: software for statistical computing environment
		Students will learn how to conduct statistical analysis using the open source and free statistical software, R. Many public, private, and international organizations use R to conduct analysis, thus experience with R is a great skill to add to one's credentials. R offers flexibility, ranging from ease of writing code for simple tasks (e.g. using R as a calculator) to implementing complex analyses using cutting-edge statistical methods and models. Additionally, the R language provides a rich environment for working with data, especially for statistical modeling, graphics, and data visualization. This course will emphasize data manipulation and basic statistical analysis including exploratory data analysis, classical statistical tests, categorical data analysis, and regression. Students will be able to identify appropriate statistical methods for the data or problems and conduct their own analysis using the R environment. This hands-on and project-based course will enable students to develop skills to solve statistical problems using R. R can be used as an alternative or in addition to SAS (BS723). R is compatible with Apple OS, Windows, and Unix environments.		

SPH BS 722: Design and Conduct of Clinical Trials
		This course covers the development, conduct, and interpretation of clinical trials. It is suitable for concentrators in any department. Topics include principles and practical features such as choice of experimental design, choice of controls, sample size determination, methods of randomization, adverse event monitoring, research ethics, informed consent, data management, and statistical analysis issues. Students write a clinical trial protocol during the semester. 		

SPH BS 723: Introduction to Statistical Computing
		This course introduces students to statistical computing with focus on the SAS package. Emphasis is on manipulating data sets and basic statistical procedures such as t-tests, chi-square tests, correlation and regression. Conditions underlying the appropriate use of these statistical procedures are reviewed. Upon completion of this course, the student will be able to use SAS to: read raw data files and SAS data sets, subset data, create SAS variables, recode data values, analyze data and summarize the results using the statistical methods enumerated above. This course includes hands-on exercises and projects designed to facilitate understanding of all the topics covered in the course. Students use equipment and software available through the Boston University Medical Center. This course is a prerequisite for BS805, BS820, BS821, BS851, BS852, BS853 and BS858.		

SPH BS 728: Public Health Surveillance,a Methods Based Approach
		Thacker wrote, "Surveillance is the cornerstone of public health practice." This course will provide an introduction to surveillance and explore its connections to biostatistics and public health practice. Topics will include complex survey design, weighted sampling, capture-recapture methods, time series analyses and basic spatial analyses. Students will learn about available surveillance data, how to analyze these data, and how to write about their findings. Additionally students will propose a new surveillance system or modification of an existing system. This class carries Epidemiology concentration credit.		

SPH BS 775: Applications of Statistical Methods in Clinical Research
		This course provides a non-technical (no computer programming) overview of concepts in statistical methods used for clinical research and their applications. Each week, students read a methodologic article and a clinical research article. The first portion of the class is a didactic presentation; the second portion is a discussion of the clinical research article, incorporating the concepts discussed in the didactic presentation. Students explore statistical test selection, alternative tests or approaches. Students examine interpretations of scientific articles in the lay press.  		

SPH BS 805: Intermediate Statistical Computing and Applied Regression Analysis
		This course is a sequel to BS723. Emphasis is placed on the use of intermediate-level programming with the SAS statistical computer package to perform analyses using statistical models with emphasis on linear models. Computing topics include advanced data file manipulation, concatenating and merging data sets, working with date variables, array and do-loop programming, and macro construction. Statistical topics include analysis of variance and covariance, multiple linear regression, logistic regression, survival analysis, the analysis of correlated data, and statistical power. Includes a required lab section.		

SPH BS 810: Meta-Analysis for Public Health & Medical Research
		Meta-analysis is the statistical analysis of research findings and is widely used in public health and medical research. Typically meta-analysis is employed to provide summary results of the research in an area, but other uses include exploratory analyses to find types of subjects who best respond to a treatment or find study-level factors that affect outcomes. The course will cover the theory and use of the most common meta-analytic methods, the interpretation and limitations of results from these methods, diagnostic procedures, and some advanced topics with a focus on public health application. Grading will be based on homework, an exam and a project.  		

SPH BS 820: Logistic Regression and Survival Analysis
		This course provides basic knowledge of logistic regression and analysis of survival data. Regression modeling of categorical or time-to-event outcomes with continuous and categorical predictors is covered. Checking of model assumptions, goodness of fit, use of maximum likelihood to determine estimates and test hypotheses, use of descriptive and diagnostic plots are emphasized. The SAS statistical package is used to perform analyses. Grading will be based on homework and exams.  		

SPH BS 821: Categorical Data Analysis
		This course focuses on the statistical analysis of categorical outcome data. Topics include the binomial and Poisson distributions, logistic and Poisson regression, nonparametric methods for ordinal data, smoothed regression modeling, the analysis of correlated categorical outcome data, cluster analysis, missing data and sample size calculations. The course emphasizes practical application and makes extensive use of the SAS programming language. 		

SPH BS 822: Advanced Methods in Statistical Computing
		This course introduces advanced statistical methods and programming techniques that allow students to examine advanced statistical models that go beyond that available with standard SAS procedures taught in BS805. Topics include simulation studies, bootstrapping and Bayesian analysis. Students will apply these methods in homework assignments. 		

SPH BS 830: Design and Analysis of Microarray Experiments and Next Generation Sequencing
		In this course, students will be presented with the methods for the analysis of gene expression data measured through microarrays. The course will start with a review of the basic biology of gene expression and an overview of microarray technology. The course will then describe the statistical techniques used to compare gene expression across different conditions and it will progress to describe the analysis of more complex experiments designed to identify genes with similar functions and to build models for molecular classification. The statistical techniques described in this course will include general methods for comparing population means, clustering, classification, simple graphical models and Bayesian networks. Methods for computational and biological validation will be discussed.		

SPH BS 845: Applied Statistical Modeling and Programming in R
		This course covers applications of modern statistical methods using R, a free and open source statistical computing package with powerful yet intuitive graphic tools. R is under more active development for new methods than other packages. We will first review data manipulation and programming in R, then cover theory and applications in R for topics such as linear and smooth regressions, survival analysis, mixed effects model, tree based methods, multivariate analysis, boot strapping and permutation. 		

SPH BS 851: Applied Statistics in Clinical Trials I
		This is an intermediate statistics course, focused on statistical issues applicable to analyzing efficacy data for clinical trials. Topics include design and analysis considerations for clinical trials, such as randomization and sample size determination, and the application of statistical methods such as analysis of variance, logistic regression and survival analysis to superiority and non-inferiority clinical trials. This course includes lectures and computer instructions. Upon completion of the course, the student will be able to have a working knowledge of how to collect and manage clinical trial data; will be to analyze continuous, dichotomous, and time-to-event clinical trial data; and will be able to contribute to the statistical portions of a clinical trial study design. The student will also gain the overall knowledge required to interpret clinical trial statistical results. 		

SPH BS 852: Statistical Methods in Epidemiology
		This course covers study design and intermediate-level data analysis techniques for handling confounding in epidemiologic studies. Confounding is carefully defined and distinguished from interaction. Course content covers stratification and multivariable techniques for controlling confounding in both matched and independent sample study designs, including analysis of covariance, logistic regression, and proportional hazards models. Model fit and prediction are discussed.  Students are required to apply these methods with the aid of computerized statistical packages. BS805 and BS852 cannot be taken in the same semester without approval from both faculty. Students should speak to faculty of both courses before registering.   		

SPH BS 853: Generalized Linear Models with Applications
		This course introduces statistical models for the analysis of quantitative and qualitative data, of the types usually encountered in health science research. The statistical models discussed include: Logistic regression for binary and binomial data, Nominal and Ordinal Multinomial logistic regression for multinomial data, Poisson regression for count data, and Gamma regression for data with constant coefficient of variation. All of these models are covered as special cases of the Generalized Linear Statistical Model, which provides an overarching statistical framework for these models. We will also introduce Generalized Estimating Equations (GEE) as an extension to the generalized models to the case of repeated measures data. The course emphasizes practical applications, making extensive use of SAS for data analysis.		

SPH BS 854: Bayesian Methods in Clinical Trials
		Bayesian statistical methods use prior information or beliefs, along with the current data, to guide the search for parameter estimates. In the Bayesian paradigm probabilities are subjective beliefs. Prior information/ beliefs are input as a distribution, and the data then helps refine that distribution. The choice of prior distributions, posterior updating, as well as dedicated computing techniques are introduced through simple examples. Bayesian methods for design, monitoring analysis for randomized clinical trials are taught in this class. These methods are contrasted with traditional (frequentist) methods. The emphasis will be on concepts. Examples are case studies from the instructors' work and from medical literature. R will be the main computing tool used.		

SPH BS 855: Bayesian Modeling for Biomedical Research & Public Health
SPH BS 857: Analysis of Correlated Data
		The purpose of this advanced seminar is to present some of the modern methods for analyzing tricorrelated observations. Such data may arise in longitudinal studies where repeated observations are collected on study subjects or in studies in which there is a natural clustering of observations, such as a multi-center study of observations clustered within families. Students start with a review of methods for repeated measures analysis of variance and proceed to more complicated study designs. The course presents both likelihood-based methods and quasi-likelihood methods. Marginal, random effects and transition models are discussed. Students apply these methods in homework assignments and a project.  		

SPH BS 858: Statistical Genetics I
		This course covers a variety of statistical applications to human genetic data, including collection and data management of genetic and family history information, and statistical techniques used to identify genes contributing to disease and quantitative traits in humans.  Specific topics include basic population genetics, linkage analysis and genetic association analyses with related and unrelated individuals. 		

SPH BS 859: Applied Genetic Analysis
		Statistical tools such as linkage and association analysis are used to unravel the genetic component of complex disease. Investigators interested in the genetic analysis of complex traits need a basic understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of these methodologies. This course will provide the student with practical, applied experience in performing linkage and association analyses, including genome-wide analyses. Special emphasis is placed on understanding assumptions and issues related to statistical methodologies for genetic analysis to identify genes influencing complex traits. Students will use specialized genetics software for homework assignments. 		

SPH BS 860: Statistical Genetics II
		This course covers current topics in statistical genetics, with emphasis on how statistical techniques can be used with various types of genetics data for mapping genes responsible/contributing to complex human diseases. Topics such as genetics map functions, gene mapping in experimental organisms, advanced linkage analysis methods, statistical approaches for the analysis of genome-wide high density SNP scans in unrelated and family samples will be discussed. 		

SPH BS 861: Applied Statistics in Clinical Trials II
		This course covers a variety of biostatistical topics in clinical trials, including presentation of statistical results to regulatory agencies for product approval, analysis of safety data, intent-to-treat analyses and handling of missing data, interim analyses and adaptive designs, and analyses of multiple endpoints. Upon completion of the course, students will be able to make and defend decisions for many study designs and for issues faced when analyzing efficacy and safety data from clinical trials. Students will also be able to present, in a written format following standard guidelines accepted by the clinical trials' community, results of such efficacy and safety analyses to the medical reviewers and statistical reviewers of regulatory agencies.		

SPH BS 980: Continuing Study in Biostatistics
		Doctoral students in Biostatistics register each summer and fall for Continuing Study in Biostatistics until they have graduated from their doctoral program.  Students will participate in a dissertation workshop and other activities while they are preparing their dissertation.  Students are charged for 2 credits equivalent of tuition, for student medical insurance, and all relevant fees.  They are certified full time. Students must be registered for this course at GRS.		

SPH EH 710: Physiologic Principles for Public Health
	This course provides students with a detailed working knowledge of the normal mechanisms of human body function.  Physiological mechanisms are studied from the molecular level to the level of organ systems, and emphasis is placed on understanding how body processes are regulated and integrated so as to achieve homeostasis characteristic of a ?normal? healthy individual.  Students will become acquainted with both the gross and histological anatomy of major organs.  For each system covered, a case study of a disease of significant public health interest is used to reinforce basic physiological principles, and to acquaint students with physiological measurements commonly used in clinical settings.  This course is recommended for all students who need a substantive understanding of human physiology for subsequent coursework.  This course will be of special value to students whom expect their career?s to involve close interaction with health care providers. 		

SPH EH 713: Molecular Biology and Public Health
	The last 10 years has seen an explosion in the discipline of molecular biology that has important implications for our current and future approach to public health. Therefore, an understanding of the principal concepts of this field is critical to the modern public health practitioner. The goal of this course is to equip students with the ability to understand the potential applications of genetic engineering to their health specialties. In particular, the course introduces the student to the basic concepts of cellular biology and molecular genetics and investigates the use of a number of powerful molecular techniques including, but not limited to, gene cloning, genetic engineering of animals and plants, identification of molecular bio-markers of susceptibility, and mining of the human genome database. The implications of these advances vis-a-vis right to privacy, discrimination, and other ethical issues are also addressed. While a background in biology is helpful, this course is negotiable by any student showing a high level of enthusiasm for scientific discovery. 		

SPH EH 717: Foundations of Environmental Health
	EH717 is the introductory core course that focuses on assessment and control of a broad range of physical, chemical, and  biological factors in the natural and built environment that affect the health of individuals and populations. EH717 addresses an array of environmental issues including emergency preparedness; food safety and regulation; electromagnetic radiation; energy utilization; solid, liquid, and hazardous materials management; the fate of chemicals in the environment; vector control; livestock production; air and water quality; occupational health and safety; the built environment; environmental justice; and other timely environmental issues of growing importance across the globe.		

SPH EH 725: Analytical Methods in Environmental Health
		Students in this course learn the skills, methods and critical thinking framework necessary for upper level environmental health courses and for success as public health professionals. Environmental Health is a field of public health in which environmental hazards and health risks to populations are identified, assessed and managed through a data-driven process. This course extends the depth of concepts taught in EH717 and should be taken concurrently for students entering in the fall semester. We take the opportunity to partner with communities to design and conduct a data collection and analysis effort that is suitable for rigorous analyses with the many tools commonly used in environmental health. 		

SPH EH 735: The Environmental Determinants of Infectious Diseases
		The environment is a key determinant of infectious disease burden in a population.  This course presents an overview of how existing and, in particular, changing global environmental factors can affect the transmission cycle of infectious pathogens in both developing and industrialized countries.  It examines issues of water, sanitation and hygiene in resource-limited settings that contribute enormously to childhood death due to infectious diarrheal diseases, and to morbidity and mortality due to neglected tropical diseases (NTDs).  It also explores how environmental alterations and natural disasters can result in ecological changes that impact on the maintenance and spread of infectious diseases in a community.  Sustainable environmental intervention strategies to reduce the burden of infectious diseases will be considered for each of the major diseases covered in class.   This course is appropriate for MPH students and undergraduates, especially those interested in biology, global health, and the environment. 		

SPH EH 745: Wastewater and Health/Sustainable Sanitation
		This course provides students with an overview of the relationship between human health, ecological health, and sanitation. The different disposal and treatment methods for human excreta are described in their historical and political contexts. Related topics such as the land appliation of sewage sludge, the role of government agencies, nongovernmental organizations, and public health experts are presented as well as practical solutions toward sustainable sanitation. This course involves a group project and a paper.		

SPH EH 749: Global Environmental Health
		Environmental issues and related health outcomes vary between developing and developed countries and among geographical regions and countries; however, just as economies have become interrelated globally so have environmental problems. This class introduces students to 1) frameworks for understanding global environmental health issues including sustainable development and the demographic/epidemiological/environmental transitions; 2)methods for characterizing global environmental burdens of disease, including linkages with surveillance systems and information gaps among countries; and 3) the role of international institutions and organizations. The course will use a series of examples and cases to illustrate the complexities of global environmental problems.  		

SPH EH 750: Water Quality and Public Health
		This course is a lecture and methods course on water resources and public health. Water supply and water quality discussions provide an overview of the technical and scientific basis on which public health decisions are made regarding disease prevention and community health. The chemical, physical, and biological processes necessary for designing and managing municipal drinking water treatment plants are analyzed. Water quality topics include standards and regulations; non-point source runoff;point source discharge; and water quality analysis of drinking and surface waters. Students will sample, analyze and use water quality objectives for comparison. Social, political, and economic factors effecting water quality and treatment will be discussed. The course will conclude with historical and international perspectives on water resources and management.		

SPH EH 757: Environmental Epidemiology
		This course introduces students to epidemiologic investigations of environmental health problems. Topics include both traditional and innovative subjects and strategies, such as the health effects associated with air and water contaminants, toxic waste sites, lead, and radiation, as well as environmental exposures that have received attention only recently, such as endocrine disruptors and electromagnetic fields. The course emphasizes epidemiologic methods, particularly exposure assessment, modeling, cluster analysis, and sources of bias. Students gain experience in the critical review and design of related epidemiologic studies. This course counts as concentration credit for epidemiology concentrators.		

SPH EH 768: Introduction to Toxicology
		This introductory course presents the basic concepts of toxicology, including dose-response relationships, biological and chemical factors that influence toxicity, types of harmful effects, principles of testing for toxic effects and the underlying concepts behind toxicant-induced disease susceptibility. Toxicants found in the environment, such as metals, pesticides and industrial pollutants, are studied. The course assumes basic knowledge of chemistry and biology, although there are no prerequisites. This course is required of all Environmental Health concentrators. 		

SPH EH 780: Great Calamities and Their Consequences for Public Health
	Current public health practice in the United States evolved in response to public health calamities. Epidemics of infectious disease, mass poisonings, and industrial disasters have served as catalysts for new regulations and institutions of public health. For example, the sulfanilamide tragedy of 1937 was the catalyst for the current drug approval process. In addition, public and private responses to calamities have fueled the development of scientific knowledge and epidemiologi methods. For example, John Snow's investigation of the London cholera outbreak of 1854 demonstrated the utility of observational epidemiology. This course acquaints students with those calamities of primarily the past 200 years that were most consequential for public health practice. The emphasis is on each calamity's impact on knowledge of disease causation and control and on the development of public health institutions and regulations.		

SPH EH 800: Community-Based Methods in Environmental Health
		Low-income urban communities are exposed to many environmental and non-environmental stressors, but many tools and techniques for public policy decision-making do not adequately address these complex settings. This course focuses on methods for assessing and addressing local community health impacts from environmental stressors, with an emphasis on health impact assessment, community-based participatory research, and analytical methods to evaluate environmental justice. Case examples will include traffic and housing, and students will work with a community group to implement a health impact assessment on a topic of mutual interest.		

SPH EH 804: Exposure Assessment
		 The process of assessing exposure is a critical component of occupational and environmental epidemiology, of determining compliance with health and safety regulations, and in conducting human health risk assessments. This course in exposure assessment covers the basic concepts and methods of study design, data collection, and data analysis/interpretation. Students analyze relevant case studies and conduct a study in which they develop their own exposure assessment strategy, collect and analyze data, prepare a final report, and present their findings.		

SPH EH 805: Environmental Health Science, Policy and Law
		This course uses a case-study approach to discuss current and historic controversies in environmental and occupational health policy making. Our specific focus is on the examination of how scientific information (e.g., risk assessments, exposure analyses, epidemiologic studies, clinical case reports,) is used (or is not used) in policy decisions. Students will learn how environmental health laws and regulations are made and challenged, and gain experience looking up laws, regulations and court decisions. Case studies feature international treaties, federal and state court cases, laws, regulations, and policies. Topic areas include air and water quality, hazardous waste, environmental justice, worker safety, and the precautionary principle. 		

SPH EH 811: Geographic Information Systems (GIS) in Public Health
		This course is an introductory level course for a novice GIS user. Geographic Information Systems (GIS) is a useful tool in the public health field. This course provides students with the skills needed to apply GIS in their careers. Topics covered include basic mapping, development of geographical datasets, and data analysis from applications of GIS in different disciplines of public health. A substantial portion of the course will be devoted to computer lab sessions. The course will use ArcGIS software. 		

SPH EH 840: Advanced and Emerging Topics in Toxicology
		This advanced-level course is an extension in detail and content of EH768. The course uses a case study approach to teach the molecular mechanisms by which compounds exert their toxicity in addition to dose-response analyses that are applicable to regulatory toxicology. The course emphasizes toxicogenetic differences within the human population. Experimental methods from which toxicological data are generated are presented and discussed for each of the case studies. Major topics include cellular mechanisms of action of toxicants as they relate to oncogenesis, neurotoxicology, and immunotoxicology, and the use of these data in regulatory toxicology.  		

SPH EH 866: Risk Assessment Methods
		Students learn practical application of risk assessment methods to various environmental problems. The focus of the course is on human health risk assessment and teaches students to quantify the risk of adverse health effects from exposures to chemicals in the environment . Students also can apply what they learn to evaluations of biological and radiological exposures.  The strengths and weaknesses of risk assessment methods, the inherent uncertainties in each step, and the relationship between risk assessment and risk management are discussed.		

SPH EH 914: Environmental Health Doctoral Seminar
		This is a doctoral-level seminar course. A new central topic in environmental health is covered each semester. Topics include carcinogenesis/mutagenesis, vaccine development and application, molecular epidemiology, microbial pathogenesis, etc. Each semester proceeds from an historical perspective, and includes both basic science and policy issues. Students are assigned readings from the literature for presentation as a formal lecture, with related discussion to be led by the student. 		

SPH EH 980: Continuing Study Fee in Environmental Health
		Doctoral students who have completed all academic course requirements, must register for Continuing Study every Fall and Spring semester until they have successfully defended their dissertation and applied to graduate from SPH. Students are charged the equivalent of two credits of tuition, student health insurance, and all relevant fees, and are certified as full time. EH980 is a non-graded, no academic credit status. All students registered for continuing study will attend EH Doctoral Seminars scheduled by the Director of Doctoral Education for EH.		

SPH EP 713: Introduction to Epidemiology
	EP713 is the sole introductory epidemiology course for all SPH programs (replacing EP711 and EP712). The goals of EP713 are to introduce the basic principles and methods of epidemiology and demonstrate their applicability to public health and research and to provide fundamental skills needed to begin to interpret and critically evaluate literature relevant to public health professionals. Topics include measures of disease frequency and effect, epidemiologic study designs, bias, and screening for disease. Class lectures are interspersed with active learning exercises consisting of a mixture of in-class problems, exercises, and discussions, and online and independent learning modules further enable students to achieve the learning objectives.		

SPH EP 721: Survey Methods for Public Health
		This course stresses the theory and practice of conducting high quality survey research in health fields. Classes are a mixture of lectures, examples from real world studies, and skill exercises. Topics include research design, question construction, sampling, data collection methods, interviewing, coding, reliability,validity and preparing data for analysis. The course is appropriate for those who will do research as well as those who will be research consumers. 		

SPH EP 730: Epidemiology of Vaccine Preventable Diseases
		This course will provide students with a thorough understanding of the epidemiology and control of vaccine-preventable diseases.  This will be accomplished by focusing on a different vaccine-preventable disease each week, and using that disease to illustrate epidemiologic principles and methods related to measuring vaccine efficacy and safety, overall impact, herd effects, special populations, adverse reactions, and public acceptability.  Emphasis will be placed on current developments, outbreaks, controversies, study designs, and sources of bias.  This course combines short lectures with in-class discussions and will provide students with practice and feedback in the critical review and design of epidemiologic studies. 		

SPH EP 735: Principles of Cancer Epidemiology
		This 2-credit course is designed to provide an overview of the important concepts and tools fundamental to the understanding, design, and conduct of cancer epidemiology studies.  We will present a theoretical framework, providing an overview of the biology of cancer, as well as the major epidemiologic concepts critical to cancer epidemiology.  We will study many of the major cancer sites, including breast, lung, colon, prostate, and cervix, reviewing both descriptive data on incidence and mortality, risk factors, and methodologic issues involved in studying these cancers.  We will review several major risk factors for cancer, including tobacco, ionizing radiation, nutrition and physical activity, infections, and environmental exposures.  Assignments for the class include readings, class participation including discussions of readings, and four written critiques of articles. Students may not take both EP735 and EP752 for degree credit.		

SPH EP 740: Introduction to Epidemiology of Aging
		This 2-credit course introduces public health students to major research topics regarding age-related diseases, disorders, and disabilities, as well as the special considerations in the design and execution of epidemiologic studies in this field.  The main objectives of each session are to 1) use web-based or public-use data on the incidence, prevalence, risk factors, and health consequences of the disease or condition to describe why it is important to study in elderly adults; 2) critically review 1-2 articles to understand the current state of knowledge on the topic; and 3) examine the special methodological issues that conducting studies of the topic in an elderly study population pose.  These objectives will be met by brief student presentations each week of the epidemiology of the disease/condition, lectures by researchers who are performing studies on that condition, and journal club discussions of relevant articles that students will critique.  Students will synthesize this information in a short (8-10 page) grant proposal for a study on the prevention or treatment of a disease/condition that affects elderly adults.		

SPH EP 748: Drug Epidemiology (formerly EP830)
		With the participation of active researchers in pharmacoepidemiology, this course addresses a range of study designs and analytic techniques for observational studies on the utilization, safety and effectiveness of pharmaceuticals. Students will develop an understanding of how to plan, implement, analyze and criticize pharmacoepidemiologic studies.  Lectures will provide methodological background and will cover applied issues typically encountered in pharmacoepidemiology.  In addition, students will become acquainted with the drug approval process in the United States, and with issues particularly relevant or unique to the epidemiologic study of medications (e.g., risk management, post marketing surveillance).		

SPH EP 751: Cardiovascular Epidemiology
		The goal of this course is to enable students to understand major aspects of cardiovascular epidemiology and current strategies for primary and secondary prevention of major cardiovascular diseases (i.e. stroke, heart attack, heart failure or hypertension).  The course concentrates on physiologic mechanisms leading to atherosclerosis; traditional and novel CHD risk factors; prediction models for CVD; and the role of lifestyle, dietary, and genetic factors on the development of CVD.  In addition, relevant historical breakthrough and current controversies in CVD are discussed using the latest publication from lay press and peer-reviewed journals.  A fair amount of time is devoted to acquiring skills in scientific writing and data interpretation.  These latter skills are used by the students to design and complete a CVD epidemiology project on a topic of their choosing. Each student (group of students) then presents his/her completed project in class during the last 2 sessions of the course.  The course is taught by the course Director and other senior investigators who are experts in different areas of cardiovascular disease. 		

SPH EP 752: Cancer Epidemiology
		This course provides an overview of the important concepts fundamental to the understanding, design, and conduct of cancer epidemiology studies.  The course commences with the descriptive epidemiology of cancer, including time trends in incidence and mortality, and geographic and demographic variation in cancer rates. An overview of the biology of cancer, and a review of the major epidemiologic concepts critical to cancer epidemiology is covered.  The descriptive and analytic epidemiology of  major cancer sites, including breast, lung, colon, prostate, cervix and melanoma, is discussed, as well as major risk factors for cancer,  including tobacco, nutrition, infections, and environmental exposures.  The course format consists of a series of lectures by faculty and guests, discussion sessions, and directed readings from the current literature.  Students are required to pursue a cancer-related topic of their choosing in depth, developing a proposal for an epidemiologic study that will further current knowledge based on their literature review of the topic. Students may not take both EP752 and EP735 for degree credit.		

SPH EP 755: Infectious Disease Epidemiology
		This course introduces students to the biology, epidemiologic methods, and mathematical models needed to study infectious diseases in populations. In addition to lecture presentations on biologic and clinical aspects of infectious diseases, their distribution within populations, and their control, the course also covers study design issues specific to infectious diseases and simple infectious disease modeling. The course includes analysis of actual infectious disease outbreaks and studies through workshops and article reviews.		

SPH EP 758: Nutritional Epidemiology
		The purpose of this course is to introduce students to the discipline of nutritional epidemiology. In the class, we will focus on methodological issues relating to design, dietary assessment, and data analysis of studies on diet and disease. We will also review some of the literature relating nutrition to certain disease states, including coronary heart disease and cancer, in which we highlight methodological issues and interpretation of findings in nutritional epidemiologic research. Students completing this course will understand the basic principles of nutritional epidemiology and will be able to apply them in reading the literature and participating in nutrition research projects. This is a small, intermediate-level epidemiology class, which combines lectures with in-class discussion of classic and cutting-edge research articles. In addition, one-on-one meetings are set up with students throughout the semester to provide focused attention and facilitate mastery of the material. 		

SPH EP 759: Reproductive Epidemiology
		This course surveys current knowledge concerning the epidemiology of reproductive heath across the lifespan. Topics vary from year to year but may include infertility, miscarriage, birth defects, menopause, uterine fibroids, gynecologic cancers, and male reproductive health. The course emphasizes epidemiologic methods and gives the student experience in the critical review and design of epidemiologic studies in this area.  		

SPH EP 762: Clinical Epidemiology
		This course introduces students to topics and methods in clinical epidemiology. Covered topics include those traditionally regarded within the purview of clinical epidemiology such as the evaluation of diagnostic tests (sensitivity, specificity, predictive value, and ROC curves), decision analysis, cost effectiveness analysis, outcomes assessment, and meta-analysis. At the conclusion of the course students will understand concepts of clinical epidemiology, know the indications for using each clinical epidemiology method, and be prepared to critically evaluate studies that employ these methods. Since this course uses numerous clinical examples, it is not recommended for those with no clinical experience.		

SPH EP 763: Genetic Epidemiology
		This course familiarizes students with general methods and principles of genetic epidemiology. Topics include basic human genetics, population genetics, pedigree analysis, linkage analysis in humans, twin studies, effects of inbreeding, genetics of common diseases, genetic association studies, and forensic genetics. The course emphasizes practical applications of existing methods to designing and executing genetic studies and to genetic counseling. This involves some critical evaluation of the scientific literature. 		

SPH EP 764: The Epidemiology of HIV/AIDS in the Developed and Developing World
		This course is designed to introduce students to an important and growing field - the epidemiology of AIDS. It is designed for those students who have a keen interest in HIV/AIDS in both the developed and developing world. This course will survey state-of-the art knowledge of the epidemiology of HIV and will emphasize epidemiologic principles and methods including: estimation of the incidence of HIV infection and AIDS, study design, and sources of bias. It will also give the student experience in the critical review of epidemiologic studies in this area.		

SPH EP 784: The Epidemiology of Tuberculosis in the Developed and Developing World
		This course is designed for those students who have an interest in both tuberculosis and epidemiologic methods.  This course will survey both the history of this storied disease as well as state of the art knowledge of the epidemiology of tuberculosis (including molecular techniques) and will emphasize epidemiologic principles and methods including: estimation of the incidence of primary tuberculosis, estimation of the incidence of reactivation tuberculosis, study design, and sources of bias.  The course will also give the student practice and feedback in the critical review of epidemiologic studies in this area.		

SPH EP 800: Microbes and Methods: Selected Topics in Outbreak Investigation
		This course provides an overview of the important concepts fundamental to the understanding, design, and conduct of infectious disease outbreak investigations. The course will cover 1. The epidemiology and pathophysiology of selected infectious diseases. 2. Methodological issues related to investigating different types of outbreak. 3. Practical aspects of outbreak investigations (environmental analyses and communicating risk to the public). The course will primarily address common causes of outbreaks in this country (such as foodborne, respiratory, and hospital-based) but will touch on issues pertinent to outbreak investigations in the developing world. The course format consists of a series of lectures by faculty and guests, hands‐on experience with outbreak investigation data, directed readings from current literature, and student presentations on outbreaks of note. The course makes extensive use of SAS, so it is advised that students have completed or are enrolled concurrently in BS 723.		

SPH EP 813: Intermediate Epidemiology
		The purpose of this course is to further develop the methodologic concepts underlying the science of epidemiology. The material covered is intended to broaden and extend the student's understanding of the elements of study design, data analysis, and inference in epidemiologic research, including issues related to causation, bias, and confounding. The primary aims of the course are to provide working knowledge of the fundamentals of epidemiology as well as to serve as a foundation for more advanced study of epidemiologic methods. The course consists of lectures and workshop sessions. The workshop sessions are designed to reinforce the concepts/topics covered in the lectures.		

SPH EP 817: A Guided Epidemiology Study
		This is an upper-level , hands-on seminar course, which teaches a small group of students how to develop and conduct a hypothesis-based study, using datasets that are currently available to the instructors. Through a combination of workshops, written assignments, and oral presentations, students develop hypotheses, conduct literature reviews, perform data analyses, and write each section of a manuscript.  The final project requires the student to integrate all sections into a complete paper for journal submission.   This course prepares students to write thesis proposals and manuscripts.		

SPH EP 854: Advanced Epidemiology
		This course covers the theory and application of key principles and methods of epidemiologic research in depth. The topics include causal models, confounding, randomization, interaction, statistical analysis and inference, and causal inference. Special emphasis is given to the meaning and interpretation of p-values, confidence intervals, and likelihoods. Alternative approaches are identified for selecting and interpreting measures of disease frequency and measures of effect. Guidance is offered for determining objectives and strategies in study design and analysis, especially for case-control research. Methods are presented for the assessment and control of confounding, misclassification bias, and selection bias. Strengths and weaknesses of standardization, pooling, modeling, and exposure-response analysis are reviewed. 		

SPH EP 855: Advanced Epidemiology Seminar: Issues in Study Design
		This course is structured around reading and discussing both historical and current methodological papers.  The first section of the course focuses on papers by early theoreticians and methodologists. The second section focuses on contemporary methodologic questions.  Substantive areas may evolve and vary over time.  Recent topics have included case-control studies, study efficiency, measures of effect, exposure misclassification, sensitivity analysis, casual diagrams, and direct and indirect effects. 		

SPH EP 857: Design and Conduct of Cohort Studies
		This is a third-level epidemiologic methods course intended for advanced Masters and Doctoral students who desire to build depth and nuance in their understanding of cohort study design and conduct.  The course will build on classic and state-of-the-art papers which focus in depth on various topics such as selection of appropriate measure of excess risk and intermediate endpoints (theory and practice).  For each topic, methodologic readings will be linked back to concrete examples of cohort study design, with special emphasis on practical aspects of study conduct. 		

SPH EP 858: Design and Conduct of Case-Control Studies
		This course will develop students? practical knowledge of the design and conduct of case-control studies. It will cover the relationship between cohort and case-control studies and study design issues, including identification of a study base, selection of cases and controls, collection of exposure information, sources of bias, and matching. Published papers will be used to illustrate design, bias, and analytic issues through reading and discussion. Each class includes a lecture and discussion of assigned articles.		

SPH EP 860: Novel Analytical Methods for Epidemiology
		This course is intended to introduce doctoral students to a number of advanced methods in data analysis, with the aim of providing students with the ability to recognize situations in which the use of such methods may be beneficial, knowledge of the basic methods needed to conduct analyses, and an understanding of the strengths and limitations of each method. The course covers approximately five analytic methods in a series of 2- or 3-session modules. Topics may vary slightly in different semesters; examples of the types of methods covered include propensity scores, marginal structural models, quantitative bias analysis, and Bayesian analysis. Hands-on sessions in the classroom, homework assignments, and a final data analysis project provide students with practice in the conduct of analyses using these methods.		

SPH EP 861: Quantitative Bias Analysis Methods for Epidemiologic Research
		This course covers a novel approach to dealing with systematic error in epidemiologic research called quantitative bias analysis, QBA. QBA allows users to make corrections to measures of association for sources of bias by making assumptions typically using validation data about the nature of the bias to create intervals that account for total study error. The course will cover three types of bias analysis: simple, multidimensional and probabilistic. Exercises in Excel and SAS will allow students to practice the methods, adapt them to problems they face and present the results clearly.		

SPH EP 980: Continuing Study
		PhD, DSc, and MS in Epidemiology students who have completed all academic course requirements, must register for Continuing Study every Fall and Spring semester until they have successfully defended their theses/dissertations and have graduated from SPH. Students are charged the equivalent of two credits of tuition, student health insurance, and all relevant fees, and are certified as full time.		

SPH IH 702: Skills in Critical Analysis and Evidence Based Writing for Public Health Professionals
		This introductory course will develop students? abilities to read the public health literature critically and to integrate evidence into a well-crafted policy memo. The class will focus on critical analysis of a case study focused on two research articles analyzing interventions to prevent HIV transmission. Through in-class discussions students will explore why the studies drew different conclusions. Course assignments will allow students to hone the applied critical analysis and writing skills they will need as public health professionals.   		

SPH IH 703: Global Public Health: History, Approaches and Practices
		If I have seen further it is only by standing on the shoulders of Giants. Sir Isaac Newton, 15 February 1676. As public health professionals, we stand on the shoulders of giants.  This course has two major goals: to welcome students into membership in the professional social movement called public health and to expose them to the rich historical tradition of the profession. Using selected public health case studies, we will highlight a selection of extraordinary individuals and events with the goal of illuminating current global health architecture and building understanding of the politics of priority-setting and decision-making.  The course will address issues of human rights, individual rights, population rights and ethics.		

SPH IH 704: Global Public Health and Medical Care: A Systems Approach
	This course gives students an understanding of the elements common to all medical care systems and the factors which influence the shape, cost, performance, and quality of health systems. Examples are drawn from countries whose wealth and stage of development vary widely. The interaction between the public and private components of the health sector is explored. Equity in health services is a crosscutting theme. Students learn about the organization, delivery, and financing of medical care and the strengths and weaknesses of alternative approaches to health care finance and delivery. The major problems in health care facing low- and middle-income countries and the strategic options available to these countries are addressed. The course is taught in an interactive lecture format. There is an emphasis on systems thinking and systems approach. All Global Health concentrators, MPH students who are not U.S. citizens or permanent residents of the U.S., and MI program students may take this class.  HPM concentrators must take PM702. Students who have taken PM702 for MPH degree credit may enroll in IH704 as an MPH elective. Global Health concentrators are given preference in registration but registration is open. 		

SPH IH 707: Kenya Field Practicum in Public Health and Environment
		This 5-week course in Kenya focuses on environmental and community health as it relates to the indigenous Maasai residing at the base of Mount Kilimanjaro.  In the early 1980s Kenya began a process of privatizing open grazing land into group ranches. This significant land use change has forced traditionally nomadic peoples, including the Maasai, onto smaller plots of land.  This change in lifestyle has been associated with a rise in sanitation-related and water-borne diseases, infant and childhood disease and HIV/AIDS. Participants in the Kenya Field Practicum will be trained in field-based data collection, analysis, report-writing and presentation skills.  Past summer sessions have collected baseline information on water and sanitation practices, community health indicators and worked with local organizations to evaluate the success of health interventions.  Results and recommendations are presented to local Maasai leaders and other stakeholders.  Contact Joe Anzalone for information regarding application, travel, and related information.  The course also fulfills the BUSPH field practicum requirement if students also complete two skills-based professional development seminars.		

SPH IH 708: Program for Global Health Practice in the Philippines/classroom
		The Program in Global Health Practice (PIHP) in the Philippines is an intensive, twelve week field experience. To meet the requirements of SPH IH708, students attend a Parasitology Course at the University of the Philippines College of Public Health, comprised of field trips to participate in research projects and learn about schistosomiasis and malaria control programs in the Philippines. Students also participate in a study tour to gain a practical understanding of community health financing alternatives by exposure to actual community financing programs in the Philippines. Students learn how poor communities pool their resources to pay for medical care. IH708 must be taken together with SPH IH709.  IH709 is the internship portion of the Philippines Program.		

SPH IH 709: Program for Global Health Practice in the Philippines/internship
		The Program in Global Health Practice (PIHP) in the Philippines is an intensive, twelve week field experience. Students complete a classroom and research portion of the program in SPH IH708. In IH709, students meet the MPH degree practicum requirement through a placement in an international, national, or local public health agency. The Philippines Program plus two skills based professional development seminars done separately from the Philippines Program meets the MPH degree practicum requirement.		

SPH IH 710: Field Practicum in Public Health Research and Evaluation in Ethiopia
		To start in Summer 2015. To start in Summer 2015. This 10-week course in Ethiopia allows students to apply research skills to examine social problems of the most vulnerable populations in Ethiopia's urban and periurban areas. BUSPH students collaborate with counterparts from Addis Ababa University (AAU) to design a research study, collect data, carry out cleaning and analysis of the data, and prepare a report to the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Youth and Social Affairs. In addition, students are encouraged to use the data generated during this field practicum to develop a manuscript for publication in the peer-reviewed literature. Both BUSPH and AAU provide faculty oversight. IH710 is the classroom portion of the field practicum. 		

SPH IH 711: Internship in Public Health Research and Evaluation in Ethiopia
		To start in Summer 2015. To start in Summer 2015. This 10-week course in Ethiopia allows students to apply research skills to examine social problems of the most vulnerable populations in Ethiopia's urban and periurban areas. BUSPH students collaborate with counterparts from Addis Ababa University (AAU) to design a research study, collect data, carry out cleaning and analysis of the data, and prepare a report to the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Youth and Social Affairs. In addition, students are encouraged to use the data generated during this field practicum to develop a manuscript for publication in the peer-reviewed literature. Both BUSPH and AAU provide faculty oversight. IH711 is the practicum portion of this experience. 		

SPH IH 720: Social and Behavioral Sciences in Global Public Health
	Public health professionals know what behaviors contribute to health; however, they know less about why people fail to adopt healthy practices. This course is based on the premise that the more we understand about why people behave the way they do, the more successful we will be as we develop and implement programs and policies designed to improve health. This course uses psychology, sociology and anthropology to improve our understanding of the determinants of health behavior and will provide an introduction to a variety of health behavior theories and basic qualitative research methods. Our intent is to develop practical strategies for understanding the social and behavioral foundations of public health, enabling us to plan effective interventions. Working individually and in groups, students will use conceptual frameworks such as BEHAVE to help identify a public health problem, select a target audience, conduct basic qualitative research to determine facilitators and barriers to engaging in a given practice, and propose several behavior change and communications (BCC) strategies based on an assessment of the situation. IH720 meets the MPH core course requirement in social and behavioral sciences for Global Health concentrators and international, nonresident students who are not SB concentrators. Students may not take both IH720 and SB721 for MPH degree credit. 		

SPH IH 722: Supply Chain Management for Improved Health System Performance
	Supply chain logistics is an important aspect of public health programs, and an area that is often unappreciated.  The journey from manufacturer to a patient in a remote rural village in Africa is complicated and fascinating serious management challenge.  This course provides a practical introduction to the core tenets of health commodity supply chain management (SCM), including system design, assessment, quantification, procurement, inventory management, and logistics management information systems.  Using the "Access Framework," students will gain foundational knowledge and apply that knowledge in class exercises, discussions, case studies, and stakeholder interactions.  Course assignments will have a strong experiential component with a focus on professional level communications and analytical skills.  		

SPH IH 735: Gender, Sexuality, Power, & Inequity in Global Health
		This course explores the socio-cultural, economic and political contexts in which people live their lives and how these, and local and large-scale forces of structural violence (inequity, marginalization and gender discrimination) impact health and development. Course readings and discussions examine how these forces constitute immediate and fundamental risk factors and must therefore be considered and addressed as part of any effort to improve public health. Course format: seminar with topics introduced by professor and guest lecturers. 		

SPH IH 741: Global Health Consultation Techniques
	This course will prepare students for consulting and technical assistance assignments in developing countries. Students learn to analyze the pros and cons of potential consulting assignments and prepare proposals. The potential conflicts between donors/sponsors and the agency receiving the consulting services will be considered. Assignments considered include financial analysis, operational improvements, training and program evaluation. Cross cultural issues and the problems of operating in remote areas are discussed. This course is for foreign nationals returning to their own countries and US citizens/residents who will seek international assignments with USAID contractors or NGOs. During this intensive one week course, students prepare a proposal in response to an actual RFP (Request for Proposal) as well as a presentation summarizing findings of a major consulting or research assignment.		

SPH IH 743: Implementing Health Programs in Developing Countries: Making Programs Work
		As professionals working in low and middle income countries, we often end up running programs we did not design, which are under-financed, and which face enormous implementation challenges. In this course, students will work with a specifically identified health program that is currently being implemented and conduct systems analyses, undertake problem solving exercises, and propose solutions to real implementation challenges in the field. Ultimately they will be able to prioritize the interventions necessary to effectively run a complex health program in such diverse situations as urban slums and dispersed rural areas in developing countries and be prepared to plan the actions to effectively run those programs. This course is directed towards students in the health management emphasis area and is not suitable for students in their first semester of studies. Students who will particularly benefit from this course are foreign nationals returning to their own countries and U.S.citizens or residents who will provide technical assistance through NGOs or other agencies to implement existing health programs.		

SPH IH 744: Program Design for Global Health
		Developing a structured approach to program design is an important skill for public health professionals. IH744 provides an opportunity to learn and apply the key steps of program design. The course invites students to work with an international non-governmental organization to design a public health program. The non-governmental organization will orient student consultant teams with a scope of work that will contain guidelines for developing a program for the organization and identifying prospective donors for funding. To complete the scope of work, each team will identify and describe a relevant public health problem and apply evidenced based solutions to address the problem(s). Course work will also sharpen the knowledge and the skills required for working effectively in a team and students will learn to reflect on individual and team performance. Students will be introduced to e-portfolio and will use it to document their knowledge and skills in program design.		

SPH IH 745: Monitoring and Evaluation of Global Health Programs
		There is consensus within the global public health community that inadequate project monitoring and evaluation (M&E) represents a major constraint in programmatic efforts to address the problems we face. The absence of sound M&E processes in large numbers of public health projects, despite continued evidence of their value in assessing and improving project performance, suggests that many project planners and managers may not yet have the necessary skills or understanding to develop and operate such systems. This course is designed to help address this need. This course provides a detailed analysis of program monitoring and evaluation with an emphasis on public health and nutrition-related projects. By reading relevant literature and using case studies, students will gain an understanding of the language and tools of program evaluation. The course will focus both on theory and practical utilization, and will consist of presentations, discussions, and applied exercises involving the preparation and critiquing of monitoring and evaluation plans. The course has a required, non-credit lab that is scheduled in a different time slot than the class. 		

SPH IH 755: Managing Disasters and Complex Humanitarian Emergencies
	This course will provide students with a solid introductory understanding of disasters and complex emergencies and introduce practical responses and interventions. By the end of the course, students will be able to describe human and natural emergencies and their main causes, articulate and conduct public health assessments, prioritize needs, and plan immediate and long-term interventions. Class discussions will also focus on analyzing and anticipating the consequences of emergencies.		

SPH IH 756: Analytical Methods for Pharmaceutical Systems Assessment
		This course aims to develop skills essential to assessing and evaluating pharmaceutical policy and the performance of pharmaceutical programs. Students will learn to develop a pharmaceutical country profile, analyze medicine prices and availability, apply technical guidelines, and use other assessment tools and methods in the pharmaceutical sector. Students will also develop skills to undertake a sampling exercise, use qualitative methods, and review and write technical reports. Students will use instruments which are already developed with a focus on implementation issues, analysis of data collected and awareness of strength and limitation of each method applied. The course will introduce students to the many resources which exist to help understand pharmaceutical sectors, and prepare them to work in a national or sub national pharmaceutical system.		

SPH IH 757: Fighting Corruption Through Accountability & Transparency
	Corruption and lack of accountability in government are concerns in all countries, but they are especially critical problems in developing and transitioning countries where public resources are already scarce and corruption can cripple growth and development. In international health work, most public health practitioners will encounter corruption at some point and will need to make ethical and management decisions about how to work within corrupt systems and how to prevent corruption from occurring. This course is designed to introduce participants to the problem of corruption and provide them with skills for assessing vulnerabilities to corruption in the health sector.  Topics covered include corruption risks in drug procurement and supply, medical conflicts of interest, informal payments, and financial corruption. Participants will acquire the confidence, knowledge, and skills needed to become effective advocates for anti-corruption strategies and health system reforms. 		

SPH IH 762: Essentials of Economics and Finance for Global Health
	This course is an introduction to the essential concepts and tools of health economics and financing with application to the particular challenges facing transitional and developing countries. The course does not assume prior training in economics and will provide an introduction to the conceptual underpinnings of health economics, highlighting those concepts that will be most useful in applied policy settings. Case studies will focus on practical application to current international health financing policy problems.		

SPH IH 766: Reproductive & Sexual Health in Disaster Settings
	Of the millions of people displaced by armed conflict around the world, 65-80% are women and children. In recent armed conflicts, women have been the targets of exploitation, rape, forced marriage, forced pregnancy, and other types of gender-based violence. These violent acts have implications on women?s reproductive health. This course will expose students to the issues affecting the reproductive and sexual health of women in conflict and post-conflict situations. The context of recent conflicts and their effects on women?s health will be analyzed. Other topics will include: common reproductive health morbidities in conflict situations, reproductive health assessments, programming, monitoring and evaluations, gender-based violence, and rape as a weapon of war. Specific examples will be drawn from the wars that occurred in former Yugoslavia, Kosovo, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Southern Sudan, and the ongoing war in Darfur, Western Sudan. 		

SPH IH 770: Poverty, Health, and Development
		Poverty, Health and Development is the core International Public Health course for master?s students in the new University-wide Global Development Policy Program. The course also serves as an elective course for students in public health. The goal of this course is for students to explore the relationships between poverty, health, and development in low-income countries. While not a methods course per se, methods in public health, economics, statistics, and quantitative impact evaluation will be introduced and used throughout the course.		

SPH IH 773: Financial Management for Health Programs
	Health care managers must be prepared to talk about financial issues, analyze and interpret data, and make decisions using financial information.  This course develops competencies in cost analysis, pricing, budgeting, and reading financial reports in international health settings where financial systems are weak and data not easily available.  In addition to using principles of differential and full cost analysis, students gain skills in breakeven analysis and calculating mark-ups.  Examples are drawn from hospitals, clinics, and revolving drug funds from developing countries.  		

SPH IH 777: Global Health Culminating Experience Seminar
		This seminar course has two main purposes: first, to enable participants to respond to one another's work, examine issues in the writing process, make improvements from draft to draft, and complete a well-researched, well-argued concentration paper; second, to explore issues in global health that are the focus of their research and emerge with a greater understanding of the questions they raise for policy and practice. Papers go through three drafts, and students will have the opportunity to give and receive feedback in peer review sessions. Background readings and regular participation in class critiques and discussions are required. Students must be working on their culminating experience to be enrolled in the class.		

SPH IH 781: Nutrition and Public Health in Lower Income Countries
		This course introduces students to public health nutrition in the developing world. Topics include 1) the major nutritional challenges facing low-income countries (including macro- and micronutrient deficiencies, HIV and infant feeding, nutrition in emergencies and obesity) 2) nutrition through the life cycle 3) potential causes of poor nutrition including health behavior, societal norms, and economic factors 4) innovative approaches to addressing undernutrition 5) monitoring and evaluation efforts to track changes in nutritional status and feeding behaviors, and 6) policy-level responses to malnutrition, especially among women and children. While some class time is devoted to clinical nutrition, equal emphasis is placed on behavioral and programmatic issues including successful community-based nutrition interventions, national and international responses to under-nutrition and how these can be coordinated. This course also briefly reviews the evidence base for each approach. By the end of this course, students will be able to broadly describe the literature on international nutrition and to use Excel to clean and analyze data on infant and young child feeding (IYCF) practices. 		

SPH IH 795: Global AIDS Epidemic: Social & Economic Determinants, Impact, & Responses
		AIDS is one of the most important pandemics and human development challenges of our time. This course explores the determinants and impacts of the AIDS pandemic and examines best practices in prevention, care and treatment and impact mitigation. Students will explore the relationship between human rights, gender and vulnerability to HIV; examine effective multi-sectoral responses; and evaluate the benefits and limitations of major multi- and bi-lateral AIDS initiatives. Students will also examine the major debates in the AIDS field and explore different, at times contradictory, perspectives.    		

SPH IH 800: Clinical development of a new medicinal: A case study about licensing a new vaccine for the developing world
		Vaccines are arguably our most potent public health tools. The clinical development of a new vaccine is a massive undertaking, spanning many years, and typically costing hundreds of millions of dollars  -- yet the process by which new vaccines are developed, tested, licensed, and used is poorly understood. In this course, students will participate in an extended simulation of the clinical development of a new vaccine.  Students will design a Phase I through Phase III clinical development program; at each step, decisions the students take will influence future events, making the course highly iterative and flexible.   The course is taught by an infectious disease specialist who recently led a clinical development team at Novartis Vaccines that led to licensure of a new meningococcal vaccine in over 33 countries.  This course requires a substantial amount of time working in groups outside of the scheduled class time.   		

SPH IH 804: mHealth
		Located at the nexus of technology, informatics and public health, mHealth (defined as medical and public health practice supported by mobile devices, such as mobile phones, patient monitoring devices, personal digital assistants (PDAs), and other wireless devices) is rapidly emerging from its pilot stage to become an important component of public health programs. In this course, you will learn how to design, develop, implement and evaluate a mHealth program. You will learn the basic terminology of mHealth programs, how to develop, design and evaluate a mHealth intervention as well as learn the current state of the field and major international mHealth implementers. Using a theoretical base, you will also learn the technical skills of developing an application based on a case study that can be deployed and used on a mobile phone.  This course is suited for students who are at least in their second semester and who are familiar or interested in learning more about how mobile technology intersects with the health sector. 		

SPH IH 805: Controversies in Global Control and Eradication of Infectious Diseases
		This is an advanced level seminar course. It focuses on areas of active controversy regarding past and current eradication/control campaigns. This class will consider the biological, epidemiological, sociological, political, ethical, and programmatic features that allowed the smallpox eradication campaign to succeed. Other diseases that are currently candidates for global eradication campaigns that will be covered in this class include polio, measles, malaria, lymphatic filariasis, onchocerciasis, and dracunculiasis. Public health policy decisions ultimately rest on basic and clinical scientific research. This course approaches this topic through a series of focused readings drawn from the primary scientific literature. The goal is to prepare students to better participate in these debates themselves. 		

SPH IH 808: Research Proposal Development: A Practical Approach to Team Grant Writing
		The main objective of this course is to equip students to develop a research project in a developing country. The scope of the proposal can include baseline data collection for needs assessment, monitoring and evaluation of an existing program, or identification of predictors associated with health or disease outcomes.  Students learn practical skills associated with writing a proposal including creating project objectives, sampling methods, calculating sample-size, developing a work plan and budgeting.  Students work in teams throughout the semester to develop the proposal.  Proposals from this class have successfully competed for funding.  		

SPH IH 811: Applied Research Methods in Global Health
		The objective of this course is to teach student teams how to collect and analyze both quantitative and qualitative data to answer study questions.  Student teams will conduct a research study with multiple research methods including a cross-sectional survey and their choice from a variety of qualitative methods.  The scope of the research questions addressed will be limited to minimal risk research conducted with students on the Boston University Medical Campus in the space of a semester.  Each team will design a questionnaire, administer it, and enter and analyze the data using EpiInfo or other statistical software.  In conjunction with the cross-sectional survey, each team will also use some form of qualitative method, such as in-depth interviews or focus group discussions (FGD).  The student teams will integrate the results of the cross-sectional survey and the qualitative research and present a report with findings and recommendations to their peers and faculty members.  Students completing the course will have the skills to be able to collect and analyze data in a wide variety of settings.		

SPH IH 820: Global Issues in Pharmaceutical Policy and Programming
	Pharmaceutical policies are changing rapidly in developing countries. Ensuring access, maintaining quality, and promoting rational drug use are the priorities. This course examines national drug policies, selection issues, medicine pricing and availability, financing, health insurance, donations, and the role of the private sector and approaches to improving drug use. The impact of global treaties and particularly the TRIPS agreement WTO and access to AIDS drugs will be addressed. The course will also examine the role of global and bilateral donor programs for the treatment of HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria. The course will utilize a seminar format and will require substantial reading to prepare for small group discussions and activities.  		

SPH IH 854: From Data to Dashboards: Building Excel Skills to Support Health Program Decisions
		In these uncertain times, managers need, more than ever, to make sound decisions based on data.  Good spreadsheet models are important tools in this process. Build your Excel "toolbox" by learning and applying robust formulas, graphing and dashboarding techniques, and data analysis in a wide range of real-world case study examples, such as cost and utilization analysis, estimation of revenues and expenses, and performance dashboards to monitor and evaluate performance of health interventions.  Students will have the opportunity to build their own models to apply to a health service challenge of their choosing. This course is appropriate for upper level MPH students who have basic excel skills.		

SPH IH 880: Confronting non-communicable diseases in the developing world: the burden, costs and health systems challenges
		A combination of lower fertility rates and changing environmental factors and lifestyles has led to aging populations and epidemics of tobacco addiction, obesity, cardiovascular disease, cancers, diabetes, and other chronic ailments, aggravating the persisting burden of infectious diseases in the developing world. This advanced course aims at providing a thorough understanding of the risk factors, epidemiology, burden, and economic consequences of the most prevalent non-communicable diseases and the fundamental policy considerations regarding intervention strategies for their prevention and control in resource constrained settings. This overall goal will be achieved by marrying economic approaches with those of epidemiology, clinical medicine and public health.		

SPH IH 881: Program Design for Global Reproductive and Perinatal Health
		This course addresses the major reproductive and perinatal health problems facing communities around the world. We will focus on current strategies to address human reproduction, maternal health and the health of newborns. For each problem, we will consider the fundamental causes and possible solutions, including what works, what does not work and what is being tried.  Topics will include maternal mortality, gender based violence, abortion, STIs, family planning and health of the newborn.		

SPH IH 885: Global Trade, Intellectual Property and Public Health
		On the broadest level, any person interested in international public health, needs to know about globalization and trade. Globalization rewards creative and technically skilled workers and places its largest pressures on lower-skilled workers. A specific example of globalization is that of India and their embrace of new intellectual property (IP) laws. The implementation of these IP and trade rules lies somewhere between outright opposition to reforming global IP rules and an unthinking acceptance that doing so will encourage biomedical innovation and improved health outcomes. The effects of stronger IP standards on health and innovation in medicines and diagnostics are ambiguous and thus need to be subjected to empirical analysis. This course will explore the complex and ambiguous relationship between global trade, intellectual property and its impact on public health.   		

SPH IH 887: Planning and Managing Maternal and Child Health Programs in Developing Countries
	This course provides a practical framework to enable students to design, manage, and evaluate services for children and women, with an emphasis on child health. The course covers the major health challenges with a focus on children and explores specific interventions to address these challenges. Topics covered include diarrheal disease, acute respiratory infection, immunization, malaria, micronutrient deficiencies, HIV/AIDS, safe motherhood and neonatal health. The final six weeks of the course will give students the opportunity to identify the technical, political, organizational, and environmental factors necessary for a successful program. Students will work in teams to respond to an RFP for improving the health of women, children, or newborns in a developing country. Teams will attend a bidder?s conference and then prepare and present a written and oral proposal to an outside grants committee. Students cannot take both IH744 and IH887 for MPH degree credit.		

SPH IH 888: Seminar on Global Health Policy Issues
		This seminar focuses on policy formulation related to public health problems in low- and middle-income countries and is intended for students who have some experience. How is policy formulated in different settings? Who sets the policy agenda? Why do some issues get the attention of policy-makers, while other equally important issues fail to gain traction? And what approaches can be used to improve the chances of a particular policy being adopted? Students will carry out a policy analysis on a policy issue of their choice, using the policy analysis approaches and tools presented in class.		

SPH IH 943: Directed Study in Global Health for the Culminating Experience
		Students who must complete a directed study for their Global Health Culminating Experience register for IH943 with their culminating experience advisor.  Students who select Option Two, the journal article, must register for a 2-credit directed study.  Other students may choose a 1-credit directed study if appropriate and approved by the Global Health Department.  Registration in IH943 is via a proposal form and an add/drop form. Registration is not online. 		

SPH IH 950: Culminating Experience in Global Health
		Zero-credit option for completing the required culminating experience in global health.  Students may register in fall, spring, or summer. Students must select a culminating experience option, complete the required documents with the Academic Services Coordinator, and register online for the class. Registering accords the student part-time status.  Students who do not finish their culminating experience in the semester in which they registered for IH950 must register for IH951 in the next semester. 		

SPH IH 951: Culminating Experience in Global Health, Part II
		Students who do not finish their culminating experience in the semester in which they registered for IH950 must register for IH951 in the next semester. IH950 and IH951 are zero-credit options for completing the required culminating experience in global health.  Students may register in fall, spring, or summer. Students must select a culminating experience option, complete the required documents with the Academic Services Coordinator, and register online for the class. Registering accords the student part-time status.  		

SPH LW 709: Healthcare Rationing: Medicine, Markets and Morals
		Although health care is rationed in a variety of ways in the United States, Americans, and American politicians in particular, make believe that rationing does not exist.   Indeed, efforts at health care reform have often been criticized for leading to "rationing' health care resources, implying that rationing is something evil.   The idea that all Americans get the health care they need or that we have limitless resources is obviously not so. What health care is available and to whom is the result of the often invisible choices policy makers make.   This course critically explores the health care allocation choices that have been made and will be made in the future.  It analyzes the advantages and disadvantages of various rationing methods, the values and moral judgments reflected in each, and the political and financial factors influencing the choice of approach, as well as who should make such choices.  Examples of rationing to be discussed include the distribution of organs for transplantation, determining what constitutes "necessary" care under insurance schemes, the use of markets and lotteries as rationing methods, limitations on population screening, the use of age and "social worth" to limit health care to individuals, triage in emergencies, and the utility (or disutility) of cost-benefit analysis for making decisions about the availability and distribution of health care. By the end of the course, students will be able to articulate the range of possible rationing methods and to appropriately apply these methods to different scarce resource circumstances.    		

SPH LW 719: Essentials of Public Health Law
	Law is an essential tool for creating and implementing public health policies. The goal of this course is to enable students to understand how and when the law can be used to implement health policies and programs. It is designed for students who do not have prior experience or education in law and covers basic legal concepts and the process of decision making by legislative, administrative, and judicial bodies.  Students learn how to construct oral and written arguments while analyzing how American law balances the rights of individuals with the interests of government and where appropriate analyzes the ethics of policy choices.  By examining constitutional, common-law and statutory rights related to public health and health care students are prepared to compare such rights with those in other countries and in relation to the aspirational rights set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR).   		

SPH LW 725: Ethical Issues in Medicine and Public Health
	This course reviews the nature and scope of moral dilemmas and problematic decision making in public health, medicine, and health care. After a survey of ethical theory, the course focuses on a broad range of ethical concerns raised by the theory and practice of public health and medicine: the nature of health, disease and illness, health promotion and disease prevention; rights, access, and the limits of health care; the physician-patient relationship; truthtelling and confidentiality. Through a series of case studies, the course examines specific topics: the bioethics movement and its critiques; human experimentation; the role of institutional review boards; the concept and exercise of informed, voluntary consent; abortion, reproduction, genetic counseling and screening; euthanasia, death and dying; ethics committees; and international and cross-cultural perspectives.		

SPH LW 739: Jewish Bioethics
	The aim of this course is to provide an introduction to resources for and approaches to Jewish biomedical ethics. Selected issues will be studied in some depth to develop the ability to interpret relevant primary sources and evaluate competing readings of these sources. Attention will be given to different approaches in interpreting and applying Jewish texts and values in addressing contemporary issues. We will then focus on medical ethics and the Holocaust. The historical experience of the Holocaust has had a major impact on  contemporary Jewish ethicists. We will examine the relevance of the Nazi doctors, racial hygiene, euthanasia, and genocide for contemporary bioethics. The field of Jewish bioethics affords us the opportunity to explore the complex interface of philosophy, theology, halakha (Jewish law), and secular law and ethics. Students will also consider philosophical approaches in bioethics and their significance for Judaism. This course is taught with CAS RN 439/ GRS RN 739/ STH TX859 at Charles River Campus.  		

SPH LW 740: Health and Human Rights
	This course is appropriate for graduate, 4+1, and undergraduate students and is taught at the Medical Campus. Health is closely linked to the realization of human rights. Preventable illness, infant mortality, and premature death, for example, are closely tied to societal discrimination and violation of human rights. This course explores the relationship between human rights and health by examining relevant international declarations in historical context, exploring the meaning of "human rights" and "health," and analyzing specific case studies that illuminate the problems, prospects, and potential methods of promoting health by promoting human rights on the national and international levels.		

SPH LW 751: Public Health Law
	This course introduces students to the legal system and to major legal issues and problems confronting the public health professional. By analyzing judicial decisions, students learn about legal analysis and conflict resolution and avoidance. Thus they learn to see the legal system as a tool that can be used to advance, rather than impede, the implementation of specific public health policies. Topics covered include state public health powers, federal activity in public health, medical malpractice, privacy and confidentiality of medical information, mental health law, abortion and sterilization, patients' rights, emergency medical care delivery, legal status of allied health professionals, human experimentation, and rights of the terminally ill. This course is a prerequisite for most other Health Law courses. Students who take this course cannot take LW719 for degree credit. Health Law concentrators must complete this course to fulfill the health law MPH core requirement.		

SPH LW 799: Research with Human Subjects: Fundamental Legal and Ethical Principles
		This seminar course prepares students for complex legal and ethical issues they will encounter when designing and conducting clinical, social science or epidemiological research with human beings.   Through readings, class discussions, writing assignments and a class exercise, students develop skills in interpreting and applying federal regulations and ethical principles to contemporary research circumstances.  This class is appropriate for MPH, MS, and PhD students.		

SPH LW 800: Genetics, Law and Public Health
		This seminar is suitable for any student who wants to be prepared to identify and respond to legal and policy issues that arise when genetics is integrated with public health research and practice.  Case studies based on practical problems and dilemmas form the basis of in-class exercises and written assignments.  Analyzing the circumstances of these cases gives students opportunities to further their understanding of law and to link that understanding to other areas of knowledge while addressing realistic problems and dilemmas.  Cases and related course materials cover a  variety of circumstances including DNA banking, newborn screening programs, direct-to-consumer testing services, and genetic counseling.      		

SPH LW 830: Health Insurance, Health Reform and the Law
		The seminar examines the pivotal role of insurance in health reform, health policy and the distribution of health care in the US.  We explore how the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act affects the design, operation, and regulation of health benefit plans, as well as the constitutionality of the individual mandate. Investigating arguments for and against specific regulations, we learn fundamentals of insurance and whether reforms affect larger principles of law. We also study Massachusetts, the model for federal health reform, and the comparative advantages of federal and state governance. Students explore the changing roles of insurance in the health system by analyzing and comparing federal and state laws governing different health benefit plans (including indemnity insurance, managed care, consumer choice, and health promotion plans), and how reforms affect current law, including state licensure, Medicare, Medicaid, and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act. Topics include basic concepts of insurance; accepting, managing and shifting financial risk; individual and employer mandates; health insurance exchanges; contracting with providers, employers, and individuals; designing and administering plans; defining benefits; and appeals and remedies. 		

SPH LW 840: Health Law, Bioethics, and Human Rights
		Health law, bioethics, and human rights are converging in challenging ways, especially at the national level (in both legislation and constitutional adjudication), and the international law level.  This seminar will explore the convergence and its meaning for the law and society through specific case studies including post-9/11 proposals for mass quarantine; torture and force-feeding justifications in the GWOT; genetic engineering and the new reproductive technologies; the relationship between abortion and the death penalty; and the meaning of the ?right to health.?  This class is taught at BU School of Public Health and meets the Health Law, Bioethics, and Human Rights Department captone requirement.		

SPH LW 850: Legal Strategies to Reduce Health Risks
		This research seminar offers a systematic framework for determining when and how to use law to prevent or control health risks posed by diseases, bioterrorism, consumer products, personal behavior, and occupational hazards. Students will analyze and compare the suitability different legal strategies, such as criminal and civil prohibitions, isolation and quarantine, licensure, mandatory product standards, tort liability, disclosure requirements, and advertising restrictions. Emphasis is on the legal requirements for initiating and enforcing specific federal and state regulatory methods, their effectiveness, and differences between regulating personal behavior and commercial entities. Students will conduct guided research to develop a legal strategy to address a contemporary health risk. 		

SPH LW 854: Mental Health Law
		Subjects discussed include an overview of clinical psychiatry, institutionalization, deinstitutionalization, the insanity defense, incompetence to stand trial, the right to treatment and the right to refuse treatment, involuntary commitment, dangerousness, the meaning of mental illness, the use of invasive treatments, psychotherapy, privacy, and professional ethics. Legal cases make up most of the course material. 		

SPH MC 705: Safer Sex in the City: from Science to Policy
	Why do you need research-based knowledge about sex, sexuality, and how to apply this to public health? So you can understand and debate public health issues and controversies, such as STDs, contraception, and donor sperm and eggs. And maybe learn a little about yourself. This course will cover a range of topics related to sexuality and health application of this knowledge to program planning and policy.    		

SPH MC 725: Women, Children and Adolescents: A Public Health Approach
	Women, Children and Adolescents: Public Health Approaches This course introduces students to the principles and practices of public health and maternal and child health.  Using the life-course perspective, this course examines the social determinants of  health and development of women, infants, children and adolescents. Selected current topics, such as asthma, adolescent pregnancy, infant mortality, and childhood obesity, are studied in depth and used to illustrate how problems are understood, their distribution in diverse populations, and the content and quality of programs required to address them. Throughout the course, special attention is given to the impact of poverty, poor access to health care, and racial inequities on the health of families, as well as to the strengths that individuals and communities bring to the creation of solutions. By the end of the course students will be able to formulate an MCH-related public health question, conduct and write a literature review, and write a policy memo. MC725 is the first required course in the MCH sequence. 		

SPH MC 730: Leading to Face Challenges and Achieve Results in Public Health
	This course equips students with the theoretical knowledge and applied practices to lead teams to achieve results in public health settings. In addition to understanding leadership theory and analyzing public health cases, the course includes an experiential learning process, ideal for public health professionals who aspire to be effective leaders for change. Teams will work together to teach both theory and practical tools to mobilize groups and achieve results. Participants in this course cannot also take MC802 which covers similar materials in a field‐based course.		

SPH MC 759: Perinatal Epidemiology
		Issues related to the perinatal period from the framework of epidemiologic methods will be examined in this course through critical review of epidemiologic studies and exploration of measurement, design and data issues for this population. The course will examine the effect of social conditions, perinatal exposures and programmatic strategies for maternal and infant health. Participants will review various sources of perinatal epidemiologic data, and will address classification issues and challenges in assessing pregnancy exposures and outcomes related to these data sources. The final course project will require a formal, written literature review as well as an NIH-style study proposal on a perinatal issue.		

SPH MC 763: Maternal and Child Health Policy Making
	This course explores the process by which U.S. national and state policymakers allocate resources to mothers and children.  Beginning with an analysis of the evolution of U.S. maternal and child health (MCH) policy, it utilizes general policy models and case studies to examine the special features of legislative, executive, administrative, and judicial policy making in MCH.  The course examines how policy making in MCH has traditionally been characterized by a greater reliance on regulatory and judicial bodies, as well as the frequent use of mothers and children as political symbols. This course is taught in seminar format with weekly readings and student-led discussion. 		

SPH MC 770: Children with Special Health Care Needs
	The course presents an overview of issues related to the design and delivery of services for children with special health care needs and their families in the United States. It addresses the nature and extent of chronic illness and disability among children, the demographics of childhood disability, the legislative framework for health and social services for this population, and the organization and implementation of services at local, state and federal levels. Throughout the course, the central role of family in the child's life and the importance of family-centered service systems are emphasized. The challenge of balancing complex care needs with needs related to childhood social and cognitive development is highlighted. Students are given opportunities to enhance skills in the areas of needs assessment, program and policy development, and evaluation through class discussion, readings, and assignments.		

SPH MC 775: Research and Action for Eliminating Health Inequities
	This course is focused on strengthening public health students' knowledge, skills and ability to construct a critical appraisal of the determinants, distribution, causes, mechanisms, systems and consequences of health disparities. The course requirements, including the class presentations, help students in acquiring intermediate skills in design of public health interventions targeted toward understanding, reducing and ultimately eliminating health disparities among and across MCH populations.  Students will gain program evaluation skills through evaluation of allocation of resources and provision of health services in a specific community-based program. The course is designed to help students translate current knowledge and research into specific public health strategies. This class also carries concentration credit for the Social & Behavioral Sciences concentration.		

SPH MC 782: Women and Substance Use
	This course offers a window on the experiential context in which women -- including adolescent girls --develop substance abuse problems, and the health and social consequences for them and for their families. We will examine the complex, dynamic interaction of risk and resilience as it affects individuals, families, and communities, and learn about the interplay between substance abuse and co-existing mental health problems. The course will cover effective practices for screening and clinical assessment, gender-specific and family-centered treatment, prevention of relapse, and the importance of addressing co-morbidities as part of public health strategies. Throughout the course, we will consider special MCH populations, such as pregnant women. By the end of the course, students will demonstrate a deeper understanding of the complexity and inter-relatedness of personal and social environments in which substance abuse and mental health issues occur within families and strategies and policies for prevention, detection, and treatment. A research paper will be required.		

SPH MC 785: Introduction to Sexual and Reproductive Health Advocacy
		This course prepares students to design, lead, or collaborate in advocacy efforts around reproductive health policy in the United States.  It allows students to focus on an array of issues related to women?s fertility and its regulation and to use multiple frameworks--public health science, law, social history, religion and politics--to frame and argue their positions for purposes of advocacy.  The course begins with an overview of the social and political history of fertility control and current reproductive health services and policies. We then examine debates at the state and national levels in preparation for advocacy skill-building and practice, including a visit to the State House, interaction with a panel of advocacy organizations, participation in mock legislative hearings, and the writing of an ?op ed? article for a local or national newspaper.  By the end of the course students demonstrate enhanced competence in critical analysis, argument, writing and presentation to audiences that range from public officials to the readers of popular press.  Interested students may append the course with directed study or practicum with Prof. McCloskey to complete a project at a reproductive health advocacy organization.		

SPH MC 786: Immigrant Family Health: Public Health Across Borders
	This course focuses on low-income immigrants in the U.S. and applies a family and community health perspective to the study of their health and well-being.  It begins with an overview of how political, economic, cultural factors at the global and local levels shape the migration patters and  health of immigrants and refugees.  We then examine specific immigrant groups and health issues, with attention to interventions that engage community members in taking action.  Students will gain critical skills in contextual analysis, community based participatory research, and project design. This class counts for MC, SB, and IH concentration credit.		

SPH MC 795: The Health of Adolescents and Emerging Adults
		This course equips advanced undergraduates and Master's students from all departments and disciplines to examine the public health challenges presented by adolescents. The course begins with an introduction to adolescent development (i.e., in terms of biology, behavior, social roles, and psychology), and also reviews basic themes of public health (i.e., a public health approach, the social ecological framework). The course continues with in-depth review of the prevalence and causes of several key risk behaviors and health problems among adolescents, including: unintentional injury, sexual risk behaviors, suicide and mental health, obesity, multiple types of violence, and substance use. The course also reviews: health policy, school health, the role of the media on adolescent health, and issues in adolescent health research. Class sessions involve a variety of formats including small group work, lecture and discussion, activities, and debates.		

SPH MC 800: Preventing Mental Health Disorders Among Women, Children, and Adolescents: A Life Course Perspective
		The course will use a prevention framework to examine mental health interventions targeted to women, children, and youth.  We will explore how events that occur during critical developmental periods -- early childhood, adolescence, and pregnancy - can alter the life course of the individual and the family.  Readings will focus on preventive interventions that target specific disorders, as well as those focused on addressing risk and protective factors common to many mental health problems.  We will pay particular attention to how preventive interventions can be implemented and disseminated at a community level and integrated into primary care health care settings and major public health programs.  The course will involve substantial group work; it is approved for MCH and SB concentration credit.		

SPH MC 802: Implementing Community Health Initiatives: A Field-based Course in Leadership and Consultation
		Students will work in theory and practice to address the question, How can we as emerging public health professionals with diverse backgrounds work together and with organizational partners to lead new initiatives and assure optimal health in our communities? This course is designed for upper level public health students who seek the leadership and consultation skills needed to assess problems, define challenges, analyze stakeholder interests, develop and implement strategies to achieve results.  By the end of the course students will be able to work in teams to apply the Challenge Model to develop and implement a community-based health initiative in partnership with a community health center or organization, and effectively communicate findings and recommendations in real-world professional settings.  		

SPH MC 815: Sexual and Reproductive Health Advocacy: From Rights to Justice
		This course prepares students to design, lead, or collaborate in advocacy efforts around sexual and reproductive health policy in the United States, with attention to the global context in which the policies are developed and have their impact. Students focus on an array of issues related to sexual health and the regulation of women?s fertility, and use multiple frameworks--public health science, law, social history, religion and politics--to frame and argue their positions for purposes of advocacy. Students develop skills in critical analysis, argument, writing and presentation to audiences that range from public officials to the readers of popular press.		

SPH MC 820: Managing MCH Programs
		This course helps students develop skills in program implementation and management.  The class moves through the implementation process step-by-step, culminating in the development of a complete programmatic management plan as the course final.  Class meetings build from the initial steps of problem definition through the development of a logic model, monitoring and evaluation planning, incorporation of appropriate strategies for engaging relevant stakeholders, design of program outreach materials, and development of a program budget.  Assignments are progressive: as new components are added to student plans, previous components are revised and refined.  The class emphasizes team work as well as development of individual skills.  Students learn to critique one another's work in workshop sessions scheduled at key junctures in the course.  Students are expected to have completed MC725 before taking MC820.  Exceptions are possible, however, for students from concentrations other than MCH and occasionally for students who can draw on substantial experience around a particular MCH topic. 		

SPH MC 840: Women and Health Policy: Gender, Evidence, and Politics
		This course provides an opportunity to link theory, experience, and policy-making in the field of women?s health. Topics explored during the first half of the course include: what women in the U.S. need, want and receive with respect to health care services and preventive education; the role of women as health activists, consumers and providers; the meaning of gender, race, class, and culture in the provider-patient relationship; the assumptions and agendas that have shaped the field of women?s health; and the implications of that history for policy-making today. During the second half of the course, case studies are used to consider whether or not the questions currently being asked in women?s health are the right questions and whether or not resources are being directed appropriately. Topics examined in depth include mammography, lesbian health, hormone replacement therapy, physical disability, depression and aging. Students complete the course with sharpened skills for making arguments and promoting their ideas orally and in writing to audiences as diverse as legislators, the media, private foundations, public health policy-makers, and the general public.  this class carries SB concentration credit.		

SPH MC 845: Perinatal Health Services
		This seminar will focus on the contribution of perinatal health services and policies to improving birth outcomes and maternal well-being and reducing racial/ethnic disparities.  This seminar will not address the identification of underlying causes or risks for poor birth outcomes, but rather the amelioration of known risks through organized public health programs and policies.  A wide range of current prenatal health initiatives will be examined, including the CDC's preconception and health care initiatives; comprehensive prenatal care (including home visiting) and centering pregnancy initiatives; community-based Healthy Start initiatives; the March of Dimes prematurity prevention campaign; interconception and internatal care interventions; women's health and MCH life-course initiatives, child and family allowances, and European reproductive health practices and policies.  The special emphasis of this course will be on the practical implementation and delivery efficacious perinatal health services.		

SPH MC 940: Maternal and Child Health Culminating Experience
	All Maternal and Child Health concentrators must complete an integrative paper. Students must meet with their advisors to plan the experience, submit a signed Culminating Experience Approval form, and complete the drafts and final product according to the established deadlines. In addition, MCH Leadership Program students must complete an electronic portfolio by the established deadlines for the MCH Culminating Experience. To document their work on the culminating experience, concentrators must register for SPH MC940, a zero-credit, pass/fail course. For more details on the requirements for the culminating experience, please see the Concentrator Guide.  		

SPH MC 941: Maternal and Child Health Culminating Experience II
	All Maternal and Child Health concentrators must complete an integrative paper. Students must meet with their advisors to plan the experience, submit a signed Culminating Experience Approval form, and complete the drafts and final product according to the established deadlines. Should the deadline not be met, MCH  concentrators must register for SPH MC941, a zero-credit, pass/fail course, in the next semester, summer included. For more details on the requirements for the culminating experience, please see the Concentrator Guide.   		

SPH PH 709: The Biology of Public Health
	This course, designed for students who have little or no background in the biological sciences, provides a foundation in the biological mechanisms and principles underlying major public health problems.  Selected public health problems are explored from a biological perspective in order to provide fundamental information about infectious and non-infectious agents of disease, disease transmission, biological defense mechanisms, co-evolution of man and microbes, the effects of nutritional deficiency and excess, effects of respiratory exposures, the biology of cancer, aging, and other topics.  Each student completing this course should be able to knowledgeably participate in a discussion of public health problems with a basic understanding of the terminology, the underlying biological mechanisms of major public health problems, the biological impact of disease, and the major biological issues that influence the success of interventions. This course, or its equivalent, or SPH EH710, Physiology, are required pre-requisites for SPH EH768, Introduction to Toxicology.		

SPH PH 712: Public Health Response to Emergencies in the United States
	This course provides students with the necessary knowledge and skills to understand the public health impacts and roles during emergencies and disasters in the United States.  The course will use two recent cases, 2013 Boston marathon bombing and 2009-2010 pandemic flu, to explore the persons, events, decisions, policies, and systems involved in each of the events. Students will apply emergency preparedness skills to analyze preparedness, response, recovery, and mitigation operations and to communicate risk effectively. Students  will consider the question that plagues governmental authorities and residents alike: ARE WE READY? In the end, students will possess a command over how the public health system can provide essential services and support healthy communities during times of emergency. This is accomplished through a combination of case studies, panel discussions, team activities, tours, and exercises. 		

SPH PH 728: Religion, Ethics, and Public Health
	This course will introduce students to the health related aspects of a variety of Western and Eastern religious and ethical traditions, health controversies that exist within those traditions, methods that can be used to reconcile public health needs with religious and ethical traditions. Through review of case studies, students will be challenged to harmonize public health priorities with cultural beliefs in a way that best serves the community. For example, we will study the religious and ethical controversy inherent in major public health issues such as exemptions to mandatory vaccination laws, sex education in public schools, statues outlawing female genital cutting, life support withdrawal, determination of death, faith healing, fetal stem cell research and allocation of scarce resources. Ultimately, students will generate a robust conceptual framework, enabling a nuanced approach to some of the most critical topics in the field of public health.		

SPH PH 740: Pharmaceuticals in Public Health: An Introductory Course
		This course provides the students with an overview of the role of pharmaceuticals in public health and the basic functions of the pharmaceutical sector in terms of stakeholders,regulations, policies and evaluation. In addition the course has the objective to introduce the students to the pharmaceutical program and provide them with basic knowledge that is necessary to enter other courses. By the end of the course the students will be able to discuss the relevance of pharmaceuticals for public health, identify relevant actors in the pharmaceutical sector and their functions, to identify problems within the pharmaceutical sector that lead to inequity and inefficiencies and the proposal strategies to overcome these problems. 		

SPH PH 800: Preparing Doctoral Students to Teach
		This workshop style course is directed toward doctoral students in advanced programs in Environmental Health, Epidemiology, Biostatistics, Health Policy and Management and the Doctoral of Public Health (DrPh) degree. The principle foci for the course will be implementing principles of integrated course design and developing effective teaching strategies. Students will create an e-portfolio complete with teaching philosophy statement, a curriculum module developed during the course, a brief presentation of that module via microteaching along with evidence of their teaching, community service and research work. 		

SPH PH 825: The Role of Human and Environmental Factors in Emerging and Re-emerging Infectious Diseases
		The goal of this course is to give students a basic understanding of the human and environmental factors involved in the natural history of emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases.  Specific infectious diseases, including avian influenza, SARS, dengue, chikungunya, and enterohemorrhagic E. coli, will be employed as models to illustrate the involvement of these factors.  Major emphasis will be placed on understanding the pathogenesis of the specific infectious diseases under discussion, as such an understanding is essential for appreciating how any disease emerges or re-emerges.  At the conclusion of the course, students will be able to apply the principles they have learned to analyze and determine the factors involved in the new emergence or re-emergence of an infectious disease; knowledge which is ultimately essential for determining appropriate disease control and prevention strategies. 		

SPH PH 851: Needs Assessment
		This course examines the processes by which local and regional health status and services can be assessed and analyzed.  Students will learn approaches to: quantitatively and qualitatively defining public health problems; setting a community agenda by prioritizing distinct public health problems; engage the community in assessing local capacity to address those problems; visualizing those problems with Geographic Information Systems; and presenting the results of their assessment to audiences of decision makers and the public.  		

SPH PH 853: Strategic Planning and Communications
		This course focuses on the development and implementation of program and policy interventions that can improve public health by modifying people's health-related behaviors, and on the design and execution of effective oral and written communications to support those interventions. Working through a sequence of written assignments, students will develop: (1) a set of theory-based learning and environmental change objectives; (2) a strategic plan for a program or policy intervention designed to change an important health-related behavior; (3) a management plan for implementing and maintaining that intervention; (4) a supportive communication strategy; and (5) specific media and communications executions to operationalize that strategy. In class writing workshops and individual consultations are designed to give students ideas for their projects and interim feedback on their written assignments. 		

SPH PH 854: Program and Policy Evaluation
		Evaluation research is critical to the advancement of public health knowledge and the improvement of program services. This course focuses on the theory and practice of program evaluation and the development of student evaluation skills and their implementation in practice. Students will use case study materials.  Students will learn to conceptualize the entire evaluation process from the development of program logic, through evaluation design, measurement, sample size calculation and an analysis plan. In addition, students will learn about cost-effectiveness analysis and meta-analysis for policy development. PH854 is a summer-long course.		

SPH PH 856: Law & Ethics for Public Health Leaders
		Law, ethics, and human rights often either determine or heavily influence both the range of choices open to public health policymakers and the means available to achieve public health goals. Using case studies, including rationing flu vaccine, responding to catastrophes such as Hurricane Katrina, protecting and promoting women?s health and reproductive rights in developing countries, and regulating research to prevent exploitation of subjects in resource poor countries, students will recognize and integrate legal, ethical, and human rights concepts into public health policy development. 		

SPH PH 857: Health Economics and Financial Management for Public Health
		This course is an applied, practitioner-oriented survey of major topics in health economics and the financial management of public health organizations and programs. It will provide students with a brief introduction to the theoretical and conceptual underpinnings of health economics and financial management, but the focus will be on practical application to health care market issues, resource allocation policy problems, financial and managerial accounting, performance measurement, and economic evaluation of public health programs.		

SPH PH 858: Cases in Public Health Management
		This course will focus on developing tools for and perspectives on decision- making in senior public health positions through analysis of a series of case studies. Students will adopt different roles in preparing the cases, sometimes singly and sometimes in groups. The cases will address challenges faced by senior leadership including human resources, facilities design, quality control, organizational change and integration of policy and program planning. Students will be assessed on: (1) memos prepared for their roles in individual classes; (2) the quality of their participation in class discussions of the cases; and (3) their response to a case that will be distributed as a final examination.		

SPH PH 866: Public Health Leadership Seminar
		The public health leadership seminar will be the main integrative pedagogic experience of the DrPH doctoral program. It will provide a place for combining and applying knowledge from previous courses and field experience to address substantial complex multidimensional public health programs. It will also address crosscutting issues that may not be covered in any single DrPH core or departmental course. This integrative leadership doctoral seminar will model/demonstrate the multidimensional approaches and cross-cutting leadership needed to address a complex public health practice issue, including students' dissertation projects. The seminar will also provide an opportunity to meet/learn from/and interact with senior Public Health officials/practitioners.		

SPH PH 970: Public Health Practicum
		This course allows students the opportunity to integrate and apply classroom learning in a public health work environment through an approved, planned and supervised practicum. For students matriculating in Fall 2009 and after, course components include: 1. placement in an agency or organization with a scope of work which develops and applies learned public health skills. 2. minimum of 112 practicum work hours 3.approved learning contract 4.faculty and agency oversight 5.midpoint review 6.written abstract 7. poster presentation and integration seminar 8.evaluations 9. attendance of 2 skill-based professional development seminars. For students matriculating prior to Fall 2009, see the Practice Office for requirements. Practicum course is graded pass/fail. 		

SPH PH 971: Public Health Practicum
		This course presents an opportunity for students to use his/her second year SSW field placement to fulfill the MPH practicum requirement. Course components include one, 2-hour seminar and an individualized learning experience (choice of seminars or reflective essay, focusing on social work and/or public health practices). Students must also attend two skill-based professional development seminars. Practicum is graded Pass/fail.		

SPH PH 975: Public Health Practicum
		This course allows students the opportunity to integrate and apply classroom learning in a public health work environment through an approved, planned and supervised practicum. Students may register for 1, 2, 3, or 4 credits. For students matriculating in Fall 2009 and after, course components include: 1. placement in an agency or organization with a scope of work which develops and applies learned public health skills. 2. minimum of 112 practicum work hours 3.approved learning contract 4.faculty and agency oversight 5.midpoint review 6.written abstract 7. poster presentation and integration seminar 8.evaluations 9. attendance of 2 skill-based professional development seminars. For students matriculating prior to Fall 2009 who do a 2 or 4 credit practicum, see the Practice Office for requirements. Students matriculating prior to Fall 2009 who select a 1 or 3 credit practicum in Fall 2009 or thereafter must follow the new requirements. Practicum course is graded pass/fail. 		

SPH PH 984: Public Health Practicum
		This 4-credit directed practicum option and is available for the student who will produce an enhanced academic product suitable for publication or for presentation upon completion of the practicum. In order to choose this option, the student must also identify a BUSPH faculty member with whom to work. Expectations and guidelines for the academic product must be discussed with the faculty preceptor at the onset of the practicum. The student must demonstrate the capacity to complete such a project. The faculty member should commit to such a project only if he/she is willing to co-author with the student on the practicum product. The faculty member must also commit to meeting with the student several times during the course of the practicum semester. For students matriculating in Fall 2009 and after, course components include: 1. placement in an agency or organization with a scope of work which develops and applies learned public health skills. 2. minimum of 112 practicum work hours 3.approved learning contract 4.faculty and agency oversight 5.midpoint review 6.written abstract 7. poster presentation and integration seminar 8.evaluations 9. attendance of 2 skill-based professional development seminars.10. submission of enhanced academic product. For students matriculating prior to Fall 2009, see the Practice Office for requirements. Practicum is graded.		

SPH PH 986: DrPH Practicum
		Required practicum for DrPH students.  Students must submit paperwork to Sebastian Bach in the DrPH Program Office for approval prior to registration. Course is pass/fail. 		

SPH PH 990: Continuing Study in DrPH Program
		Must be DrPH student working on dissertation. Doctoral students who have completed all academic course requirements, must register for Continuing Study Fee every Fall and Spring semester until they have successfully defended their dissertation and graduated from SPH.  Students are certified full time and charged for student health insurance, the equivalent of two credits of tuition, and all relevant fees. 		

SPH PH 995: Summer Research for Curricular Practical Training
		This course provides an appropriate registration status for international MS or doctoral students in any SPH department who need Curricular Practical Training (CPT) authorization in order to conduct off-campus research that is required in their curriculum. CPT authorization is required regardless of whether the research is part of a paid or unpaid position.		

SPH PM 702: Introduction to Health Policy, Delivery, and Management
	Almost 90 percent of the $2.8 trillion spent on health care in this nation in 2012 was used to provide medical services to individuals.  High costs, unequal coverage and access, stresses on many caregivers, tradeoffs among quality and cost and access, and growing political tensions afflict U.S. health care.  These problems affect all of us who work in public health. This course analyzes these problems, their causes, and ways to solve them.  Specifically, how can our vast human and financial resources be marshaled and managed to improve health care delivery for all Americans?  To answer this question, the course examines how people are covered, how care is organized and delivered, how money is raised and caregivers are paid, management, politics, ethics, and more.  It considers hospitals, physicians and other caregivers, long-term care, prescription drugs, and mental health.  NOTE: This course meets the health policy and management MPH core requirement.  It is the prerequisite for most others in the department.  Peace Corps/MI students who are not HPM concentrators, students studying on F-1 or J-1 visas, students who are not permanent residents of the U.S. and who are not Health Policy and Management concentrators, and all International Health concentrators may substitute IH704.  		

SPH PM 721: Organizational Behavior in Health Care
		This course provides a framework for understanding, diagnosing, and taking actions to improve individual, group, and system-wide effectiveness in health services organizations.  Concepts from the organizational behavior literature are applied to issues in health services organizations. Some of the topics this course addresses and integrates are leadership, motivation, culture, team dynamics, organization design and coordination, and organizational change. Case studies, brief lectures, student presentations, and experiential exercises are used throughout this course, and working in teams is a large component of the course. 		

SPH PM 733: Health Program Management
		This course associates the role of a leader and manager in provider and payer health care settings with real-world business knowledge and skills.  It aims to better equip present and future health care managers in order to lead, plan effectively, anticipate challenges and marshal resources. Students will gain an appreciation for the complexities of management and leadership in challenging health care situations.  Concepts will be discussed briefly with the greater emphasis on the development of the critical thinking skills necessary to succeed in today's changing health care environment. This course will make significant use of case study and requires class participation. Topics include differentiating leadership from management, patient and process flow, the importance of organizational culture, and managing change.  In addition, one session is devoted entirely as a workshop on provider-payer health care negotiations.  PM733 is a summer-long course. 		

SPH PM 734: Principles and Practices in Non-Profit Health Care Accounting
	This course combines didactic and case study approaches to the fundamentals of nonprofit accounting, with emphasis on health care institutions. Topics covered include accrual accounting, fund accounting, budgeting, and cost concepts. Analysis and interpretation of financial statements for decision making by the nonfinancial manager are stressed. 		

SPH PM 735: Health Care Finance: How Policy-makers and Managers Can Use Money as a Tool to Improve Health Care
		This course describes how money works in health care. It examines how policy-makers and managers view and use money. It presents a variety of useful analytic techniques, and then explores alternative methods of employing money to shape more accessible, affordable, and effective health care. We examine current financial crises and managerial problems in health care along with alternative ways to remedy them. No financial or accounting background is assumed.		

SPH PM 736: Human Resource Management in Public Health
		This course provides students with a skills-based orientation to human resource management, especially in a public health or human services setting. Core human resource management activities such as staffing, training and development, compensation, and employee relations are explored via readings, cases, and experiential activities. Using case examples that illustrate basic principles, students develop strategies to improve human resources practices through job analysis, selection, training, compensation, and employee relations, while developing an awareness of the unique aspects of the health care workforce that affect human resource management in such settings. 		

SPH PM 740: Comparative Health Systems and Policy in Industrialized and BRIC Countries
		This course examines the population and individual health systems of industrialized and emerging countries, exploring each system's historic, cultural, political, economic and demographic antecedents. There are significant variations in organization, finance, structure, operations and population level outcomes. Since the US health system performs at the top of cost and the low end of outcome measures there are lessons to be learned from other systems, but it is essential first to understand why differences among systems developed and persist. 		

SPH PM 744: Introduction to Health Facility Planning & Design
		This course explores the factors that drive the planning, design and construction of healthcare facilities. Key concepts, such as converting market demand to workloads, workloads to space programs, and programs into functional designs - while considering quality, cost, and schedule aspects - will be discussed. By understanding the processes that planning and design professionals use to translate ideas into 'bricks and mortar, students will learn how educated owners develop successful healthcare facilities. 		

SPH PM 755: Health Care Delivery Systems: Issues and Innovations
		This required intermediate course in the Health Policy Management concentration is designed as a hands-on introduction to the complex organizational and delivery aspects of many levels of health care--primary care, mental health, long term care and hospital-based care. Students are introduced to concepts such as Patient Centered Medical Home, the Chronic Care Model, patient-centered care, care coordination, team-based care (teamlets), the Institute of Medicine's six aims for improvement and the IOM's 10 Rules for Redesign, and implementation science frameworks. Students select a health care problem/policy of their choice to research and potentially solve. This will involve students' examining the barriers and facilitators to achieving quality health care as described in this policy, and conducting field-based interviews with experts in this area to learn more about their perspectives on this health care problem. Using the Chronic Care Model, students will describe a new policy that meets the IOM's Six Aims for Improvement or 10 Rules for Redesign. Then, using the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research, students will discuss the steps needed to bring their new policy into action. Written and group work, self-reflections, peer review, a professional presentation, and a final policy brief compose the graded assignments during this course		

SPH PM 758: Introduction to Mental Health Services
		The purpose of this course is to develop a basic understanding of the mental health service delivery system and its relationship to public health and to the health care delivery system. Topics include a description of mental health services, epidemiology of mental health disorders, the current delivery system, mental health managed care, innovations in mental health services, and mental health policy, financing, and standards of treatment. Other issues such as parity, consumer and family advocacy movements, and issues relevant to children and adolescents are also discussed. 		

SPH PM 776: Managerial Skills for Problem Solving
		Students explore a variety of problems that they face as managers and leaders, learn self-discovery and interpersonal skills useful in solving these problems, and have opportunities to practice applying those skills, through the analysis of their own experiences in organizations. The aim of the course is to provide skills and confidence that students can use to face and solve interpersonal problems. The class also introduces students to systems thinking as a way to map and manage the underlying dynamics that produce managerial problems. Specific skills relevant to the case problems are developed through reading assignments, written case analysis, interactive class exercises, real-world practice, and lectures. 		

SPH PM 780: Managerial Accounting for Healthcare Leaders
		This course will focus on the differences between financial and managerial accounting, and how to apply financial data to everyday decision making in a health care organization. Students will develop skills in: creating financial reports that project both revenues and expenses into the future; evaluating such reports as the basis for operational and strategic decisions; and understanding the relationship between cost measurement and behavior. 		

SPH PM 802: Pharmaceutical Management, Policy and Practice in the 21st Century: A Case Study Approach
		This course, formerly PM742, gives an overview of the pharmaceutical industry domestically and internationally in a public health context. The course will synthesize and integrate key pharmaceutical topics with a focus on health policy and management. Topics include the functions of the FDA, research and development of drugs, government regulation and patents, access to drugs, vaccines, Medicare Part D, Accountable Care Act and the use of large pharmaceutical datasets to investigate the effectiveness of drugs. This course will use a case study approach targeted to real world decision making problems raised by the pharmaceutical industry. 		

SPH PM 807: Introduction to Cost Effectiveness Analysis
		This course examines the use of cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) in health policy and medical decision-making. Students gain a working knowledge of theoretical and practical issues encountered in conducting and applying CEA, i.e. identifying costs and relative effectiveness and consequences of health care interventions (e.g., pharmaceuticals), prevention programs, and policies. Approaches to formulating the problem, adopting a perspective for the analysis, measuring costs, evaluating consequences, discounting, and reflecting uncertainty are discussed. Emphasis is on acquiring skills necessary for becoming informed consumers of CEA, learning to appraise published literature, and developing simple cost-effectiveness models. Case studies demonstrate the use of CEAs. Exercises highlight methodological issues and the development of models in several in-class computer lab sessions. The computer lab sessions offer hands-on experience with the design of models in TreeAge and Microsoft Excel. The class is appropriate for students in the Pharmaceuticals Program. Students who take PM855 may not take PM807. 		

SPH PM 810: Introduction to U.S. Government for Public Health Students
		This course is a brief introduction to the institutions, processes, and politics of federal institutions; how they were designed and how they actually operate today. Concepts of power, representation, interests and public opinion are explored. Cases in the course focus on public health policies. Students learn to use the internet to find how particular public health issues are handled by the federal government.		

SPH PM 811: Health Services Research and Methods
		This course emphasizes an application-oriented approach to the study of health services research with the goal of informing health care policy. Emphasis is on definition of the problem, scale of the study, research methods, and analysis. A foundation is covered among the following possible areas: measurement issues (reliability and validity), secondary data analysis, clinical trials, sampling, survey methods, qualitative methods, and economics (cost-effectiveness). Students are expected to prepare a grant proposal on a contemporary topic of their own choosing with health policy implications.		

SPH PM 814: Contemporary Theoretical and Empirical Issues in Health Services Research
SPH PM 818: Health Information Technology
		This course provides students with the knowledge and skills to evaluate and manage information technology in heath care organizations. In particular it focuses on the role of IT in driving organizational change and supporting quality improvement and elimination of medical errors. Topics include electronic health records, computerized provider order entry, interoperability, management decision support, and provider pay for performance. The perspective of the course is that of the chief information officer (CIO) and other managers and users of health care information systems, not that of the technical specialist. The course will consist of a series of lectures, cases, and discussions, some of which will be led by guest lecturers who are experts in the field of health care information technology and systems. Course requirements include a quiz, a 10-page paper, and a class presentation. The class meets at the Charles River Campus with GSM HM817 on the GSM schedule. 		

SPH PM 821: Advanced Health Services Research Methods
		This course builds on SPH PM811 by providing advanced methods and their applications to studies of health care outcomes, quality, and economics. Methods covered include: advanced measurement techniques such as item response theory and applications through computer adaptive testing, selecting the research design, meta-analysis, advanced statistics applied to grant proposals, and econometric methods using instrumental variables. Students develop an original paper based upon a secondary data analysis.		

SPH PM 824: Theory & Research on Organizations
		The purposes of this course are first to develop the students' understanding of major theoretical perspectives on health care organizations, and second to develop their abilities to apply these theories to conduct theory-based research on health care organizations. The course achieves this understanding through an in-depth review of contemporary literature addressing each major theoretical perspective and through written assignments and discussions of the contrasts among the major theoretical perspectives on organizations. To develop their abilities to apply the theories, students also design organizational research based upon the different theories. 		

SPH PM 826: Health, Illness, and the Use of Health Services
		This course provides an introduction to social science research relating to patients' engagement with health services.  Its goal is to develop critical understandings of how people perceive a need for health services, seek them, engage in transactions with health care providers as "patients" and live with the outcomes of care.  The central theme is patient-centered health care as a basis for inquiry in health economics (e.g., consumer behavior, decision making) and health care quality and outcomes (e.g., approaches to chronic illness care, shared decision making). 		

SPH PM 827: Strategic Management of Healthcare Organizations
		This course examines key strategic issues that healthcare organizations face that affect their competitive position and performance. Through the course students learn to select and apply analytic frameworks from economics, management, and law to resolve these strategic issues. Students develop skills in strategic planning and management that includes industry and competitive analysis. 		

SPH PM 828: Advanced Seminar in Qualitative Research Methods for Health Services Research
		This course will focus on the use of qualitative methods in understanding outcomes of care, such as patient-centered perspectives on illness and health care; processes of care, such as doctor-patient interactions and communication; and the organization of care, such as the impact of different organizational structures on the quality of care. Students will develop skills in the use of qualitative methods in health services research, including the procedures of focus groups, the use of in-depth interviews, naturalistic observations of health care practices, and ethnographic studies of health care organizations and client communities. The course is part of the PhD program in Health Services Research, but will be of interest to other students who wish to learn about utilizing qualitative methods in their research. 		

SPH PM 830: Developing Patient-Based Health Status and Outcomes Measures
		Contemporary health services research relies heavily on patient-based measures of health status and other outcomes of health care. This course covers development and application of health status constructs to be measured, scope and content of questionnaires, qualitative and quantitative methods of scale development and validation, and new assessment methodologies including Item Response Theory and Computer Adapted Testing.  Practical issues of deciding if and when to develop a new measure, as well as selecting and applying measures in designing health outcomes research are addressed.		

SPH PM 831: Implementation Research and Implementation Science: Conceptual Basis for Linking Research and Practice in Health Services Research
		A major gap exists in health services research between what is known about interventions and the actual use of those interventions in practice. Often, interventions shown effective in the research setting do not translate in the real world. Implementation science focuses on developing methods to ensure that evidence‐based models are effectively translated to the clinical setting. The course focuses on the complex concepts of implementation science, including the wide range of theoretical frameworks and approaches driving the field. Students will also learn about different models of implementation research, its strengths and limitations, and develop an implementation research study proposal. 		

SPH PM 832: Operations Management in Health Care
		This course is designed to focus on the field of operations management (OM) in healthcare. Students will learn to apply OM principles to develop more effective operational processes, mitigate risks, and improve quality. Discussions from the text, case studies and assignments will focus on strategies and techniques of quality improvement processes, project management, work-flow and system design, and capacity planning. Additionally students will explore the intricacy, complexity and dynamics of logistics in healthcare. An industry based project will enable students to engage and implement several of the tools learned in class.		

SPH PM 833: Health Economics
		This course develops the tools of basic microeconomic analysis and applies them to key health policy issues. It emphasizes the trade-offs involved in various choices within the health care economy, with particular attention to examination of issues related to the debate between pro-market and government regulatory approaches to health care policy. Topics include the role of risk and uncertainty in health and health care, the industrial organization of the health care sector, and how payment systems affect the incentives and behavior of patients, insurers, and providers. 		

SPH PM 834: Health Regulation and Planning
		Failures of competitive markets in health care have sparked public planning and regulation. But these, in turn, have not been very successful in addressing problems of access, cost, appropriateness/quality, or caregiver configuration.  Examining cases of persisting health problems such as childhood lead poisoning and quality of nursing home care, this course dissects what has worked and why.  We examine ways to quantify harm caused by a problem, analyze causes of the harm, develop policies and programs to address those causes, and analyze the efficacy, cost, political feasibility, and managerial feasibility of specific programs.  Each student prepares a realistic plan to ameliorate harm to people's health caused by a persisting threat.		

SPH PM 835: Lean Management in Healthcare
		This course is designed to prepare students to plan and successfully implement lean management driven processes in health care organizations. It teaches lean principles and provides the opportunity to complete a lean managed project. It therefore uses a blended format that includes a week long intensive program for training on lean concepts and tools, followed by a semester long field work on a quality improvement project using lean methodology with online and personal support. 		

SPH PM 837: Evaluating Health Care Quality
		The purpose of this class is to provide a scientific basis to quality measurement.  Topics include reliability and validity of measures, implicit versus explicit reviews, provider profiling, and the role of risk-adjustment.  The course also covers applications of quality measures in health care today. Examples are drawn from various settings including acute care, long-term care, and ambulatory care. Readings are mostly based on articles in the health services research literature.		

SPH PM 838: Health Politics and Policy
		This course is designed to help students understand political dynamics of health policy making at the state level and to develop practical skills required for effective work as policy advocates.  Analytic models, case studies, guest speakers, and in-class exercises promote a practical understanding of how ideas succeed, or fail, to become law.   		

SPH PM 840: Analysis of Current Health Policy Issues
		The purpose of this course is to arm students with the skills to debate, define, and defend health policy proposals. We will explore, in depth, several current health policy problems. The course will take an analytic case approach, identifying policy options and tools, then gathering information and applying data to evaluate outcomes, costs; winners and losers. Methods for finding and accessing information on the Internet are emphasized. This is a capstone course meant to be taken in the student's last semester. 		

SPH PM 842: Health Economics for Health Services Research
		This course provides an understanding of principles of microeconomics and applied microeconomic analysis of public health policy issues sufficient to comprehend and conduct health services research. The over-arching philosophical issues facing the post health care reform world and the arguments defining the debate between pro-market and government regulatory approaches are addressed. The main focus is on domestic health economics; however, analytic methods developed in the course are applicable to foreign health care systems. Students may not take both PM833 and PM842 for degree credit.		

SPH PM 850: Consumer Organizing and Advocacy for Health System Change
		We are at an exciting point in the evolution of health care reform. As the focus for system delivery reform begins to value quality and cost transparency, consumers and patients could be left on the side lines. This course offers students the opportunity to tackle a persistent health care problem of their choosing, the solution for which, will move patients and consumers closer to the center of our delivery system. Students will create a framework for a consumer-led campaign by crafting strategic tools, proposing media and communication plans and writing a memo that can be used as a pitch to potential funders. This is a dynamic class that values class participation. Students will work in groups and will be invited to tackle problems such as: patient engagement and empowerment in a reformed payment system; health literacy and education for non-English speakers; implementation of the Affordable Care Act; and implementation of comprehensive payment reform.		

SPH PM 855: Cost Effectiveness Analysis and Decision Analysis
		This course offers an introduction to the uses and conduct of cost-effectiveness analyses (CEAs) as decision making aids in the health and medical fields. It provides students with an understanding of the roles and limitations of CEAs and criteria for evaluating these studies. Important theoretical and practical issues encountered in measuring costs and effectiveness, evaluating outcomes, discounting, and dealing with uncertainty are discussed. Discussions on framing and reporting of CEAs focus on the purpose of the analysis and the effective communication of its findings. Case studies demonstrate the use of CEAs in the areas of prevention, drug treatment, and new technologies. Students who take PM855 should not enroll in PM807.		

SPH PM 940: Health Policy and Management Culminating Experience
SPH SB 710: Nutrition and Public Health
	This course examines the principles of public health nutrition and explores the nutritional status of individuals throughout their life cycle. Faculty focus on nutrition assessment, the development of nutrition policy, the role of diet in obesity and chronic diseases of an affluent society, nutrition program planning, and national and local nutrition surveillance. In addition, the course reviews the components of administering nutrition services on a local, national, and international level. The impact of overall socioeconomic development on nutrition and health status, infectious disease, and public health policy is considered. No previous coursework in nutrition is required; a basic introduction to nutrition is provided.		

SPH SB 721: Social and Behavioral Sciences for Public Health
		This survey course introduces MPH students to social and behavioral sciences within the context of public health scholarship, research, and practice. The basic aim of the course is to teach students the social and behavioral science fundamentals (principles, theories, research, and techniques) that can and should be used to inform the identification, definition, assessment, and resolution of public health problems. The course focuses on providing a framework for considering the important questions in a thoughtful and evidence-based manner such that students will be able to critically analyze public health problems and determine the appropriate social and behavioral sciences principles, theories, and research that will be most effective and useful in intervening to address that particular public health problem. The course considers alternative paradigms for understanding and intervening to resolve public health problems in a critical way, drawing heavily upon the public health literature in which these various perspectives have been vigorously debated and discussed.		

SPH SB 730: Stress as a Public Health Problem
	Research on the impact of excessive psychological stress indicates that it plays a significant role in physical and psychological health, in rising incidence of substance use and violence in communities, in increased absenteeism and decreased productivity in the work place, and increased medical costs. This course examines the impact of psychological, biological, environmental and social stressors on health, illness, health-risking behavior and its economic and public health consequences. Education and intervention strategies and programs involving community awareness and participation are evaluated.  Through literature review, lecture and discussion, students examine the field and explore its application to health care and public health. 		

SPH SB 732: Nutrition, Aging, and the Elder Population
		This course explores the nutritional needs of elderly adults and describes the various physiological, psychological, and social changes that occur with aging that affect dietary and nutritional status. The techniques of nutritional assessment of elders in both the community and clinical settings are discussed. The nutritional needs of older adults are linked with recommendations designed to maintain optimal health into older age. Students learn about the major federal and state nutrition programs that target elders and are able to identify strengths, weaknesses, and gaps in services. Preparation of a brief policy memo on a topic of current interest and/or controversy related to elderly nutrition is required.		

SPH SB 733: Mass Communication and Public Health
		This course explores the use of mass communication as a tool for health promotion, both domestically and internationally. The course examines the role of the mass media in shaping a social and cultural environment that affects the public health , and then reviews a range of mass media strategies available to the practitioner--public communication campaigns, social marketing, public relations, and media advocacy. Students discuss the strengths and limitations of each approach and gain experience in applying these strategies to specific public health problems. Students work in groups on a final project in which they develop and present a proposal for a plan for a health promotion initiative that uses mass media.		

SPH SB 740: Social Factors: A Contextual Framework for Public Health Research and Practice
		This course is an investigation into the conceptualization, operationalization, measurement, assessment, analysis, and evaluation of socially and culturally-based determinants of public health problems for the purpose of conducting public health research and developing public health interventions. More specifically, students will critically evaluate existing research evidence, develop an understanding of the constructs, variables, hypotheses and conceptual models for various social factors that influence health; review and evaluate the measurements of selected social factors; interpret the impact of these factors on public health outcomes, and offer solutions in the form of interventions that develop protective strategies that would minimize negative effects of social factors. Students will be able to apply this understanding of social behavioral and cultural factors to both domestic and international settings by the use of specific case studies.		

SPH SB 750: Preventing Intimate Partner Violence
		This course provides an introduction to the topic of intimate partner violence with a focus on how public health practitioners can contribute to its prevention.  Lectures will cover teen dating violence, child witnesses to violence, batterer intervention, the domestic violence shelter movement, elder abuse, the intersectionality of oppressions framework and partner violence prevention, and the overlap between child abuse and partner violence.  Students will receive information about current laws and controversies related to partner violence prevention.  This course is primarily focused on partner violence in the U.S..  The major assignment for this course is a one-hour presentation prepared and delivered to the class; therefore, students should be prepared for public speaking.  Students who complete the course will be prepared to undertake research assistant, health department, or community-based work in the area of partner violence prevention and advocacy.  Teaching methods include lectures, small group discussion, case analyses, the use of multimedia, and interviews with providers.  National and state experts in the field of partner violence prevention present guest lectures.  		

SPH SB 751: Sexual Violence: Public Health Perspectives in Intervention and Prevention
	This course provides an introduction to the topic of sexual violence with a focus on how public health practitioners can contribute to its prevention.  Students will have the opportunity to interact with a victim of sexual violence, learn about approaches to sex offender treatment, and receive information about current laws and controversies related to sexual violence prevention.  This course is primarily focused on sexual violence in the U.S., although one or two lectures on topics such as women trafficking and sexual violence as a weapon of war may be presented.  The major assignment for this course is a one-hour presentation prepared and delivered to the class; therefore, students should be prepared for public speaking.  Students who complete the course will be prepared to undertake research assistant, health department, or community-based work in the area of sexual violence prevention and advocacy.  Teaching methods include lectures, small group discussion, case analyses, the use of multimedia, and interviews with providers.  National and state experts in the field of sexual violence prevention present guest lectures.  NOTE: Students with an interest in this course need to consider their own capacity to focus intensively on the difficult subtopics that will be covered in detail, including child sexual abuse.    		

SPH SB 760: Health of LGBT Populations
	Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) individuals live in every county of the United States and are recognized as underserved minority populations. In this 4-credit course students will examine the health of minority populations who are marginalized due to their sexual orientation and/or gender identity. You will identify and practice techniques for measuring LGBT populations as well as ways to better recognize the assets that are found within these communities. Today, data on these populations are increasingly collected in the context of public health surveillance and also some health care facilities have begun recording these data in medical records, yet access to these data is still mostly restricted. While recognizing the limitations of available data sources, you will make use of publicly available data to characterize quantitatively and qualitatively the diversity of LGBT populations. Course readings, class lectures, and exercises will be used throughout the course to analyze and discuss the micro and macro determinants of LGBT populations' health. You will build skills by utilizing secondary data, performing a content analysis, conducting a key informant interview, and by producing a final paper, which analyzes the literature on a LGBT health topic of their choice for the purpose of proposing next steps in research or program development for the LGBT community. 		

SPH SB 780: Mental Health and Public Health: A Social and Behavioral Sciences Perspective
		This course provides an investigation into mental health and mental illness from a public health perspective. It covers the concepts of mental illness versus mental health, describes the burden of mental illness, and discusses the etiology, diagnosis, course and treatment of prominent mental illnesses (such as schizophrenia, depression,post traumatic stress disorder, eating disorders, and addiction). In addition, specific examples and cases will address international mental health, as well as domestic racial and ethnic disparities. Taking a social and behavioral sciences perspective, the social consequences of mental illness, such as stigma, isolation, and barriers to care will be explored and their impact on access to care, rehabilitation and recovery considered. Students will also be introduced to the complex interplay of multiple risk, protective and preventive factors with a focus on social factors. The effectiveness of the current system of services and the role of public health and public health professionals will be discussed. Student assignments and projects will develop skills that apply knowledge to understand issues of mental illness and encourage behaviors that promote mental health within communities.		

SPH SB 800: The Obesity Epidemic: Moving from Individual to Environmental and Policy Approaches for Promoting Physical Activity and Healthy Eating
	This course explores environmental and policy approaches to promote physical activity and healthy eating, two behaviors strongly associated with obesity prevention. Students will gain knowledge in this topic by examining the literature and relevant strategies. Upon completion,students will be able to develop strategies to promote population wide physical activity and healthy eating.		

SPH SB 805: Race, Ethnicity, and Health
		This course examines conceptual and measurement issues related to race/ethnicity in health, public health research and practice, as well as the role of socioeconomic status and other contextual factors in health status and access to health care. The major objectives of this course are to increase students' understanding of: major health problems and utilization of health care among various racial/ethnic populations; the conceptual and measurement issues related to race/ethnicity; and social and political factors that shape health status and access to, and quality of, health care.		

SPH SB 806: Communications Strategies for Public Health
		This core course focuses on the development and execution of a planned communications strategy for a public health organization that is responsible for a community-based intervention. The course also features a review of basic theory and research that can inform the health communications process. Working through a sequence of written assignments, students outline an intervention plan and then prepare several materials to execute a communications strategy, including a pitch letter, press release, commentary/editorial, letter to the editor, and a scheduled press event. Writing workshops in class are designed to give students ideas for their projects and interim feedback on their written assignments. 		

SPH SB 808: Merging Clinical & Population-Based Perspectives in Public Health  Practice: Tension & Resolution
	Clinicians and public health professionals rarely share common definitions of health or illness, and they often have competing interests, conflicting agendas, and different strategic approaches to health care problems. This course explores contradictions and tensions between two perspectives that limit the effectiveness of both personal medical care and public health activities. Students observe population-based programs within an emergency department setting and explore the policy implications of collaborative, integrated models. 		

SPH SB 813: Web-based Health Communication Strategies for Public Health Interventions
		This course covers key health communication principles and methods for designing and evaluating web-based public health interventions. Reflecting the multimedia nature of the web, we'll consider multiple content strategies such as blogs, social media, online instruction modules and more. Each student will conduct formative research to develop a written design document and a simple website prototype for a public health intervention on a topic of interest. We'll cover how to define an audience, set clear objectives, draw on theory, conduct competitive analysis, design for accessibility, write for the web, and gather user input. While the course emphasis is on the planning process and not website design, a series of hands-on computer labs will introduce students to some basic online content creation tools and provide instruction and support for creating a simple website prototype. No technical background is necessary. Grad Prereq: SPH SB721		

SPH SB 818: Qualitative Research Methods
		This course is designed to provide students with experience in the use and application of qualitative research methods for public health activities including needs assessments, research studies, intervention strategies, and program evaluations. Students are introduced to the quantitative versus qualitative data debate in social science research. Emphasis is placed on the practice of qualitative research and each student designs and conducts a research project. Throughout the semester students' field proposals, problems, process, and progress are discussed as are methodological issues including objectivity, sampling, data collection, ethics, and data analysis. Due to the intensive nature of the class, it is not suitable for auditors.		

SPH SB 820: Assessment and Planning for Health Promotion
		This course will introduce students to neighborhoods of Boston and provide opportunities for acquiring and practicing community assessment skills. How do public health scientists and practitioners demonstrate that a health problem in a community warrants intervention. Students will learn to consult large data sets (such as the U.S. Census, hospitalization data, vital records, MassChip, and the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System) to determine health promotion needs of a specific neighborhoods and groups. Students will practice conducting literature reviews and health problem analyses to examine social determinants and propose webs of causation for selected health outcomes. The focus of the course is on applying both quantitative and qualitative skills, learning to present data clearly and accurately, and communicating effectively using a scientific writing style.		

SPH SB 821: Intervention Strategies for Health Promotion
		This course focuses on strategic planning for public health practice. Social science and maternal and child health approaches are included.  Working through a sequence of written assignments, students develop a strategic plan for a program intervention designed to change health behavior or a health outcome. Work in class and during individual consultations is designed to give students practice with elements of the strategic planning process, ideas for their project, and interim feedback on their written assignments. 		

SPH SB 822: Quantitative Methods for Program Evaluation
		This course provides an overview of the major principles and methods associated with systematic evaluation of public health programs. The overall goal is to help students develop skills needed to plan, conduct, critique, and use evaluation research. The course covers: program logic models; formative, process and outcome evaluations; internal, external, validity; threats to internal validity; experimental and quasi-experimental designs; probability and non-probability sampling; questionnaire development; operationalization of variables; statistical analysis strategies; power analysis; and analysis of evaluation design.		

SPH SB 833: Designing and Implementing a Public Health Communication Campaign
		What does it take to design a health communication campaign? Who is involved? What media should you use? What works? Should you hire an ad agency, do it yourself, and/or engage the participation of members of your target audience? These are just a few of the questions that will be addressed by students of SB833. In designing, students will develop and implement a mock health communication campaign on a topic selected by the class. The process will include topic research, audience selection, writing a communication plan, brand and message creation.  Students will ?sell? their idea by responding to an RFP. Then, students will break into groups to implement their plan.  They may create or facilitate the creation of websites, marketing materials, video, and/or any other products deemed effective and feasible. 		

SPH SB 860: Strategies for Public Health Advocacy
		This course is for advanced MPH students. It will explore the role public health practitioners can play in advocating for programs and policies to improve the public's health that have been demonstrated to be effective through peer reviewed scientific research. Students will analyze the process of advocating for policy and program change based on scientific evidence at the city, state and federal level through the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government. 		

SPH SB 940: Culminating Experience in Social and Behavioral Sciences
	All Social & Behavioral Sciences concentrators must complete an integrative professional electronic portfolio as their Culminating Experience. The electronic portfolio will frame individual students' expertise, focus, experience, and skills in public health and help them to market themselves for employment as public health practitioners. Within the electronic portfolio, students will reflect upon their studies and synthesize materials from a range of courses. In integrating their knowledge, students will develop a plan of lifelong learning that reflects areas in which to bridge a knowledge gap or focus in greater depth. To document their work on the culminating experience, concentrators must register for SPH SB940, a zero-credit, pass/fail course. For more details on the requirements for the culminating experience, please see the Concentrator Guide.  		

SPH SB 941: Culminating Experience in Social and Behavioral Sciences II
	All Social & Behavioral Sciences concentrators must complete an integrative professional electronic portfolio as their Culminating Experience. The electronic portfolio will frame individual students' expertise, focus, experience, and skills in public health and help them to market themselves for employment as public health practitioners. To document their work on the culminating experience, concentrators must register for SPH SB940, a zero-credit, pass/fail course. Should they not finish the portolio in the semester in which they registered for SB940, students must register for SB941 and complete their work. For more details on the requirements for the culminating experience, please see the Concentrator Guide.		

