GMS MH 702: Professional Orientation &amp; Ethics
		This course provides an overview of professional ethics governing the field of clinical mental health counseling, to include ethical decision-making, confidentiality and informed consent, competence and supervision, malpractice, self-care, and medical ethics. The course includes a careful review of the American Counseling Association and American Mental Health Counselors Association Codes of Ethics. The emphasis of the course is on application of ethical principles to ethical dilemmas commonly encountered in the field of clinical mental health counseling. 3 cr, Spring sem.		

GMS MH 703: Counseling Techniques
		This course provides an overview of the skills and styles needed for building healthy and therapeutic helping relationships, as well as techniques specific to a variety of psychological disorders and problems with living. Emphasis is placed on experiential exercises and clinical mental health counseling-related skills-building, including interviewing and behaviors influencing the helping process. 3 cr, Fall sem.		

GMS MH 704: Group Work Dynamics &amp; Process
		This course provides an overview of the basic principles of group counseling including the conception and design of group interventions, group dynamics and components, facilitation approaches, methods for recruiting and intervening with group members, and modalities through which groups are often conducted (i.e. psychodynamic, behavioral, support groups, and skills-based groups for special populations). 3 cr, Fall sem.		

GMS MH 705: Psychopathology
		This course provides students with an introduction to the etiology, presentation, and treatment of major mental health disorders as classified in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. Students will become familiar with identifying and differentiating diagnoses across a range of clinical presentations. In addition, there will be discussion of clinical mental health strategies that may be applied when working with a variety of clients, beginning with the first contact and including the therapeutic process and treatment planning. 3 cr, Fall sem.		

GMS MH 706: Social &amp; Cultural Foundations
		This course provides an overview of the cultural context of relationships, issues, and trends in a multicultural society, in order to enable students to work effectively with people from varied racial, cultural and class backgrounds. The course is organized around the ethical responsibility of counselors to provide clients across a wide range of identities with meaningful and relevant clinical services, and the role of counselors in promoting overall health and wellness across cultures. A contemporary body of professional literature is explored, with an emphasis on self-awareness, knowledge of others, experiential learning activities, and multicultural counseling skills acquisition. 3 cr, Spring sem.		

GMS MH 707: Research and Evaluation
	This course provides an understanding of research methods, statistical analysis, needs assessment, and program evaluation. There is an emphasis on the importance of research in advancing the counseling profession, varied approaches to research method, and the use of research to inform evidence-based practice. Landmark studies and current articles are used to illustrate applications. Students develop critical thinking skills for examining research information and its use for asking questions that extend knowledge, and for planning studies to address new questions. 3 cr, Spring sem.		

GMS MH 708: Human Growth &amp; Development
		This course provides an overview of biological, psychological, and sociocultural aspects of individual and family development from conception through elder adulthood in a multicultural context. The course is taught from perspectives of cognitive science and behavioral systems as well as sociological, cultural, life span developmental, and comparative approaches. The focus of the course is on normative development; developmental disorders are used to elucidate normative developmental and adaptive processes in language, cognition, and behavioral self-regulation that will serve to introduce students to behaviors and concepts relevant to clinical mental health counseling practice with both children and adults. 3 cr, Fall sem.		

GMS MH 709: Neuroscience for Mental Health Professionals
		The general objective of this course is to provide a foundation in the understanding of central nervous system structure and function and the relationship of brain and behavior tailored to the clinical mental health counseling professional. Special emphasis is on the neurobiology of mental illness and neurologic disease. The course is divided into two parts: Part I covers primarily the organization, structure and function of the nervous system, and Part II covers primarily the neurobiology of mental illness, normal aging, and age-related disease. 3 cr, Spring sem.		

GMS MH 710: Basic Mental Health Assessment
		This course is designed to provide an overview of principles and applications of mental health assessment in a multicultural society. The primary objectives of this course are to facilitate students' understanding of the basic methods of assessment in clinical mental health counseling, to include evaluating, selecting, and using appropriate techniques and standardized testing methods, and to conduct a thorough, culturally sensitive, and ethically responsible assessment. Methods for dissemination of assessment results will also be reviewed. 3 cr, Fall sem.		

GMS MH 712: Marriage and Family Counseling
		This course will help students gain a basic conceptual understanding of the theory, process and practice of family systems counseling. In addition, students will begin to develop skills and strategies for the assessment and treatment of family systems approaches within mental health systems and to practice these skills during in-class role-play exercises. 3 cr, Fall sem.		

GMS MH 713: Human Sexuality
		This course explores physiological, psychological, and sociocultural aspects of human sexuality, focusing on trends in the field, including teen sexuality, pregnancy, and early sexual experiences, sexual assault, HIV/AIDS and other sexually-transmitted diseases, sex addiction, sexuality across the lifespan, and ethics. 3 cr, Spring sem.		

GMS MH 714: Behavioral Medicine and Applied Health Psychology
		This course is designed to provide a broad overview of the central concepts of adult behavioral medicine, utilizing a biopsychosocial approach. The emphasis of the course is on primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention of illness as well as practical application and the ways in which clinical mental health counselors can be participate in multidisciplinary care. Theory and content will be applied to specific health conditions, including cardiovascular disease, HIV/AIDS, chronic pain and cancer. 3 cr, Spring sem		

GMS MH 716: Career and Vocational Counseling
		This course will provide an overview of the history and theories of career development; students will learn how to conduct a career interview and review and discuss the influence of developmental, ethnic, racial and gender differences for career counseling. Students will also complete and review several career tests and present their personal career development plan. 3 cr, Spring sem		

GMS MH 717: Theory and Practice of Child and Adolescent Counseling
	This course presents evidence-based clinical mental health counseling practices designed to impact children and adolescents. The course will focus on theoretical underpinnings and options for intervening directly with the child/adolescent, with parents/guardians, and in schools or other environmental settings. Sensitivity to multicultural perspectives and competencies will also be reviewed. 3 cr, Spring sem.		

GMS MH 810: Psychopharmacology
		This course provides an overview of psychopharmacology for the non-medical clinical mental health counseling provider. There will be an overview of the neurobiology of mental health disorders and the medications commonly used in their treatment. 3 cr, Fall sem.		

GMS MH 812: Addictions
		The aim of this course is to provide the necessary knowledge base for understanding and treating addiction. This course places emphasis on acquiring clinically useful knowledge and skills for recognizing and treating substance use disorders. Topics covered in this course include: recognizing drug intoxication and withdrawal, assessment of substance use disorders, Community Reinforcement Approach, Family Systems Treatment Models, Motivational, Enhancement Therapy, Cognitive-Behavioral/Skills Building approaches, 12-Step Recovery/Mutual Support Groups, and Addiction Medicine. 3 cr, Fall sem.		

GMS MH 814: Clinical Research Field Work Seminar
		This course is designed to provide students with knowledge and experience in the conduct of clinical trials. Students enrolled in this practicum will become part of a clinical research team investigating the efficacy of clinical and/or medication management of a discrete mental health and/or medical disorder. Students will choose a clinical research site of interest from a list of sites currently conducting trials and able to supervise students, to include an addictions medicine research clinic, an HIV risk reduction research clinic, and other medical and/or mental health disorders of interest. Training will include readings, presentations, observation, web-based training, and direct experience working with research participants. Var cr, Fall &amp; Spring sem.		

GMS MH 901: Orientation to Professional Counseling
		This course provides an orientation to the clinical mental health counseling profession, including the history and foundations of clinical mental health counseling, developing a professional identity, review of the settings and systems where clinical mental health counselors provide services, emergency preparedness, models of clinical supervision, professional organizations and licensure, clinical mental health counselor advocacy, preparations for practicum and internship training, and self-care strategies.  This course will also provide an overview of the clinical training component of the MHCBM program.  3 cr, Fall sem. 		

GMS MH 902: Practicum Supervision
		The practicum is a distinctly-defined and supervised clinical mental health counseling experience that provides direct mental health service work. Students are placed in a wide variety of clinical settings throughout the greater Boston area. Students engage in 240 hours of clinical training over the course of an academic semester where they provide clinical mental health counseling services to a diverse range of clients. In addition to clinical supervision received on site, students meet for weekly group supervision with a faculty member and other student trainees in the MHCBM Program. 3 cr, Spring and Summer sem. 		

GMS MH 921: Internship
		This course is a distinctly defined and supervised clinical mental health counseling experience during the 2nd year of the program. Students engage in 720 hours of clinical training over the course of the academic year and provide clinical mental health counseling services to a diverse range of clients,  Students are placed in a wide variety of clinical settings throughout the greater Boston area. In addition to clinical supervision received on site, students meet for weekly group supervision with a faculty member and other student trainees in the MHCBM program. Var cr, Fall &amp; Spring sem. 		

