GMS BT 104: Medical Terminology 1
	Understanding medical terminology is fundamental for anyone working in the sciences. It is the language   of the technician or researcher involved in biotechnology, biomedical investigations, or clinical research.   Students learn the analysis and construction of medical words within a context of scientific concepts. After   the basics, students learn the anatomy and diseases of the following systems: male and female   reproductive, cardiovascular, respiratory, and blood.		

GMS BT 106: Medical Terminology 2
	Prereq: GMS BT 104 (Med Term 1) or consent of program director. Continue building your medical   vocabulary as you learn the anatomy and diseases of the following systems: digestive, urinary,   lymphatic/immune and endocrine.		

GMS BT 110: Introduction to Biomedical Laboratory Sciences
	Prereq: One semester of biology, two semesters of chemistry and BT 208 (Ess. Math for Biotech) or   consent of program director. Provides a theoretical and practical foundation in laboratory science.   Students are introduced to the scientific method, laboratory mathematics, chemistry, biochemistry,   cell and molecular biology, and immunology. Students learn hands-on solution making, electrophoresis,   protein quantitation and other commonly used laboratory methods. Emphasis is placed on lab safety,   proper handling of instruments, careful following of written instructions for lab procedures,   maintenance of lab notebooks, and data collection, presentation and analysis. Laboratory course.		

GMS BT 160: Biotechnology 1
	This course introduces students to the basic sciences of biotechnology (cell biology, immunology,   DNA/molecular biology) and describes DNA technologies used in gene therapy and microarray technology   and in the production of recombinant protein drugs, antibodies, vaccines, and transgenic animals/plants.   The challenges of bringing protein drugs from R&amp;D through large scale manufacturing and the FDA   approval process are also discussed. First half of spring semester.		

GMS BT 170: Biotechnology 2
	Prereq: BT 160. Recent innovations in the fields of molecular biology, immunology and cell biology   have provided new insights into the pathogenesis of cancer, infectious diseases, and other intractable   diseases. The biotech industry has contributed immensely to this progress and has furthermore   accelerated the development of cutting-edge technologies that promise to deliver more effective drugs,   vaccines and diagnostics.  Biotechnology 2 explores some of the ways in which biotechnology has   impacted medicine. Students participate in this exploration through readings of recent scientific   articles, class discussions and library/internet research. Second half of spring semester.		

GMS BT 201: Anatomy and Physiology 1
	Prereq: One semester of biology. This course provides a practical understanding of anatomic structures   and coordinates this knowledge with the various functions of the human body. Also explored are   regulatory processes that integrate cells, tissues, organs and systems. Topics include: organization of   the body, tissue development, cellular structure and function as well as the integumentary (skin),   skeletal, and muscular systems. The last third of the course focuses on the nervous system. The course   incorporates clinical material throughout, and laboratory exercises correlate with the lecture material.    Laboratory course.		

GMS BT 202: Anatomy and Physiology 2
	Prereq: GMS BT 201 (A&amp;P 1) or consent of program director. This course is the second half of an intensive   sequence designed to integrate the structure with the function of the human body. The course covers the   endocrine, cardiovascular, lymphatic and immune, respiratory, digestive, urinary and reproductive   systems. Students study these systems as they relate to homeostasis and clinical disorders. Laboratory   exercises on each system are incorporated into the course materials. 		

GMS BT 208: Essential Math for Biotechnology
	Prereq: BT 108 (Intro Lab Math) or equivalent. This course prepares students for math calculations   commonly used in biotech/biomedical laboratories, and in BLCS courses such as  BT 110 (Intro Biomed   Lab Sci), BT 411 (Protein Purific.), and BT 454 (Cell Culture). Topics include scientific notation, metric   system, solution concentration, dilutions, and logarithmic scales. Some classes are held in the   laboratory so that students can apply math skills to solution making, serial dilutions and standard   curves. Students also develop strategies for solving word problems and explore the essential elements   of data organization, summarization and presentation.   Some laboratory exercises.		

GMS BT 210: Technical Writing in Clinical Research
	This course introduces students to the structure, content, and regulatory requirements of documents   created for the clinical research industry. Students review the FDA regulations and ICH guidances for drug,   device and biologic documents, AMA Manual of Style Guidelines, and common industry standards.   Students also learn to compose study abstracts, clinical protocols, informed consent forms, and clinical   study reports.		

GMS BT 220: Biomedical Instrumentation and Imaging
	 Prereq: BT 110 (Intro Biomed Lab Sci), BT 405 (Biochem), BT 342 (Cell Bio) and knowledge of molecular   biology. This course examines the scientific principles of life science instruments commonly found in   modern biomedical laboratories. Students learn hands-on the fundamentals of assay development   using optical instruments such as, spectrophotometers, fluorescent microscopes, plate readers,   bioimagers, and real-time PCR thermocyclers. Sound experimental design, including the use of   appropriate controls and consideration of instrument sensitivity, are addressed using the students'   own experiments as well as examples from the scientific literature. Students process their data,   including microscope images using computer freeware. Laboratory course. 		

GMS BT 240: Current Good Manufacturing Practices and Quality Assurance
	Prereq: BT 110 (Intro Biomed Lab Sci). This course provides a detailed knowledge of the role of Current   Good Manufacturing Practices (CGMPs) and a Quality Department in the development and   manufacture of biopharmaceutical products. Topics include the goals and obligations of the Food and   Drug Administration (FDA), a review of the CGMP subparts, and the responsibilities of a Quality   Department in ensuring product quality. CGMPs are the FDA's minimal requirements for   manufacturing, processing, packing, and holding of a drug product. Emphasis is on understanding the   intent and practical application of these regulations. Topics include the regulations and historical   perspective, quality control concepts, case studies and examples of FDA enforcement. 		

GMS BT 280: Computing for the Lab
	This course focuses on the development of computer skills essential to modern-day laboratory or  clinical researchers.  Statistical analysis tools and data presentation techniques are explored  using Microsoft Excel, while Microsoft Access is employed for data integration, organization and  storage through the development of databases.  Microsoft PowerPoint is introduced for clinical  research presentations and Microsoft Project Manager is introduced to prepare students for  clinical research project management.  Students survey existing bioinformatics databases and  tools, and examine how to integrate external data sources into their own research. A brief  introduction to current trends in computational genomics is also discussed.		

GMS BT 305: Introductory Biochemistry
	Prereq: one semester of biology and two semesters of chemistry. Provides an overview of biochemistry to   prepare students for medical school or for advanced undergraduate or general graduate science courses.   Topics covered include physical properties of biological molecules; structure and function of proteins,   carbohydrates, lipids and nucleic acids; kinetics and mechanism of enzymatic catalysis; and metabolism.		

GMS BT 320: Laboratory Automation and Robotics
	This course introduces students to laboratory automation fundamentals. Topics include: non-robotic   automated work stations; robotic workstations and systems; high throughput technologies and   Laboratory Information Management Systems (LIMS) for lab automation. Optimization of organic process   chemistry in automated systems (fundamentals of statistical design of experiments) are reviewed. Course   format includes readings and presentations. 		

GMS BT 330: Medical Devices
	This course provides students with an introductory overview of the world of medical devices, from   bandages to defibrillators. Students explore what the applicable regulations are, starting with the FDA,   and how companies use these regulations to guide the design, development, and marketing of their   products. Most classes contain an interesting mix of rules, realities, and renegades, that includes a   unique component called, "At the Drugstore," where students focus an educated eye on commonly   found items on the shelf. In addition, students learn about jobs and career opportunities within the   medical device industry and how to gain entry into the field.		

GMS BT 336: Bioinformatics
	Prereq: BT 413 (MolBio) and computer proficiency. Bioinformatics is a practical discipline that  informs basic science research as well as pharmaceutical development. The class is designed to  introduce key bioinformatic principles and provide many opportunities to put those principles into  practice on homework assignments and the term project. Key concepts of molecular biology will  be reviewed in the first lecture. Subsequent lectures will introduce bioinformatic techniques in the  context of a disease/application area-including infectious disease control, cancer, and next  generation sequencing. Data from validated public databases will be used to solve real-world  problems in class. At the end of the semester, we will look at exciting, new developments in the  field and grapple with contemporary legal/ethical issues in biomedical informatics.		

GMS BT 342: Cell Biology
	Prereq: BT 413 (Mol Bio) &amp; BT 405 (Biochem), or consent of program director. This course introduces   students to eukaryotic cell structure and function, and covers various cellular components -- including the   plasma membrane, mitochondria and the cytoskeleton -- and examine their roles in the cell. Additionally,   students explore essential cellular processes including cell communication and the cell cycle. The course   also highlights the unique features of some specialized cell types such as germ and stem cells.		

GMS BT 360: Auditing in Clinical Research
	Clinical research auditing ensures that the rights, safety, and well being of the study subject have been   protected and the clinical study data are credible. Auditing clinical trial activities provides the strict   oversight of performance with the ultimate goal of having a successful submission and identifying   opportunities for improvement. In this practical course, students learn how to prepare and conduct   audits, write audit observations, create an audit report and review audit report responses. In addition,   students learn how to manage audits by an outside agency. Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines and   regulatory requirements are reviewed along with exploring the concept of a quality system and the   writing of audit program Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). Developing an audit plan is emphasized.   Group discussions and role- playing are used to develop practical audit techniques. This class prepares   a student for an introductory auditing position within clinical research.		

GMS BT 404: Medical Virology
	Prereq: one semester of biology, two semesters of chemistry, and BT 110 (Intro Biomed Lab Sci). Focuses   on techniques used to isolate and identify viral pathogens associated with human disease. Covers the   biology, the immune response to viral infections, the genetics of viral replication, and viral pathogenesis.   *Offered every other year.		

GMS BT 405: Biochemistry
	Prereq: One semester of biology, two semesters of chemistry. This course introduces students to the   fundamental biochemical principles that underlie cell function. Topics include the structure and function of   biomolecules, including proteins, lipids, carbohydrates and nucleic acids, as well as the metabolic   pathways involved in their synthesis and degradation. Emphasis is given to metabolic regulation and   mechanisms of enzyme action.		

