KHC UC 103: Anger
	If Homer's Iliad is the first work of Western literature, as it well may be,  then the first word of Western literature is "anger."  Homer begins his epic  with a particular word for anger, "mênis"--it is but one of several ancient  Greek words for this emotion, and means something like righteous anger,  righteous indignation.  That word, and Homer's famous portrayal of its meaning  and effects, will inaugurate our seminar.  Our topic is, in short, just this:  anger.  What is it?  How to understand it?  Is it a good thing to feel, or is it  to be suppressed on grounds of irrationality, of its destructiveness, of its  connection with possibly flawed quasi-moral notions such as honor?  We have all  felt anger, to the point that it seems to be an emotion intimately familiar to  us.   And yet we have all wondered at his power and nature, and about its  morality.  Anger certainly seems to be an extraordinarily prevalent and  influential emotion at all levels of human life.  		

KHC VA 101: Art for the City
	Visual Art is a universal language where diverse areas of professional  specialization can intersect and find a new voice and way of speaking to many  people instead of an esoteric and isolated few. Significant social, political,  and moral issues of our time require the ability to think from multiple points  of view. This ability can be developed into a visionary skill, which in turn can  be embodied in enduring and powerful forms of artistic communication. In this  course students will examine the ways that visual art embodies contemporary  issues and how these issues relate to content found in the liberal arts study  disciplines including The Social Sciences, The Natural Sciences, and Life  Sciences. This course will include a diverse range of contemporary practices in  many art forms that we will discuss as a group through frank discourse. We will  investigate the impact of visual arts on diverse domains of 'real world'  industries and communities locally in the Boston Area and compare these with  projects made worldwide. We will do this through lecture presentations, peer to  peer dialogue, student to professional dialogue and research. The course will  culminate with individual illustrated reports in the form of online portfolios. 		

KHC XL 101: Global Shakespeares
	A Kuwaiti playwright, in the aftermath of 9/11, casts Hamlet as a jihadi  terrorist and Ophelia as a suicide bomber.  Hollywood directors set Othello and  Taming of the Shrew adaptations in American high schools.  The College Board, as  it does almost every year, includes a Shakespeare essay on the AP English  Literature exam.   What can these diverse events tell us about the cultures that  produce them and the plays that inspire them?  Why do contemporary writers feel  the need to parrot and parody "Shakespeare," and how much of this activity is  about Shakespeare at all? This seminar provides an introduction to reading and  writing about Shakespeare's plays.  But it also takes a step back to consider  Shakespeare as a phenomenon.  Among others we'll look at feminist Shakespeare,  postcolonial and nationalist Shakespeare, and sci-fi Shakespeare.  Beyond  learning about particular offshoots and adaptations, the deeper point is to make  sure you never read a "Great Book" the same way again. 		

