COM CM 772: PRLab
		PRLab at Boston University is the nation's oldest student run public relations  agency. PRLab allows students to gain valuable industry experience in an agency  style setting, working in the corporate, nonprofit and government sectors.  Students engage in media relations, event planning, branding, copy editing,  content creation and social media management. Over the course of the semester,  students create professional portfolios. 		

COM CM 773: PR E-Board
		This course represents the management function of the student run PRLab. The PRLab  Executive board consists of a President, Vice President and several Account  Supervisors, who work together to facilitate the overall success of the student- client interactions and PRLab as a whole.  The E-Board is also responsible for  PRLab's branding and new business acquisition.		

COM CM 809: Graduate Internship
		Students are placed in public relations, advertising,  or communication  departments of business, educational, philanthropic, or governmental institutions.  Fifteen hours per week of supervised work. Students with a comprehensive report  evaluating internship experience at end of semester. 2 or 4 cr., either sem.		

COM CM 824: Technical Writing for Communication Research
		Teaches students to develop clear and concise research proposals and write detailed research reports incorporating appropriate methodological sequences, techniques, and strategies. Teaches students to interpret the results of quantitative analyses in layperson's terms and relate their implications to a client, as well as to analyze the standards and pricing structure of competing agencies and available subcontractors in a given market. 		

COM CM 831: International Communication
	Factors of international communication; cultural, economic, political, and social influences. Role of communication media in effecting social change in a wide variety of countries. 		

COM CM 901: Directed Studies
		Supervised reading, fieldwork, or research for student's specific needs.		

COM CM 909: Thesis or Project Research
				

COM CO 101: The World of Communication
           			Introduces students to many fundamental principles of communication.  Students also learn about the intertwined nature of communication professions as they explore the major fields of study in communication.  Guest lectures from various industries inform students of potential future career paths. CO101 is required of all students in the College of Communication, including transfer students, IUT students, and DDP students. Students must receive a "C" or higher in CO101 in order to proceed further into COM. 		

COM CO 102: Special Seminars
	COM 102 offers multiple sections each semester in a variety of student services, career services and technological topics. These ?added-value? seminars do not count toward graduation requirements, but do offer valuable insight and tools to be successful in your college career and beyond.		

COM CO 201: Introduction to Communication Writing
           			The College of Communication's core undergraduate writing course. Students refresh their grammatical and stylistic skills and apply those skills to professional writing assignments. Prepares students to write with clarity, conciseness, precision, and accuracy for the communication fields.		

COM CO 401: Radio Station Practicum
	This is  a seminar for students interested in managing the student-run radio station, WTBU.  It is open to students who serve on the executive board of WTBU.  Students will manage all facets of the radio station including music programing, sportscasting, news reporting, promotions, underwriting, website management, and technical equipment.  Students will learn how to accomplish specific goals in improving the professionalism of the station and increasing the audience of WTBU.  varilbe credit/ either sem.		

COM CO 704: Teaching Techniques
	Required for and open only to COM CO 101 graduate teaching assistants. Designed to acquaint teaching assistants with strategies for effective teaching and equip them with techniques for conducting the basic undergraduate communication course. Students increase their proficiency in leading discussion sections, appraising student progress, and handling problem situations. 		

COM EM 737: The MArketplace v. Regulation: Emerging Media and Communication Policy
	Social media and other forms of data creation and manipulation are posing  profound challenges to traditional legislative and regulatory arrangements.   Issues ranging from privacy to equal access, from spectrum allocation to market  concentration and from intellectual property to secrecy have become quite  contentious due to power of digital technologies.  Innovative services can  collect data in ways that can have poorly understood ramifications.  This course  surveys the laws and regulations that apply to emerging media and probes the  major policy issues in detail with a particular emphasis on the situation in the  U.S.  		

COM EM 747: Trending Insights: Social Data Analysis and Visualization
	This course familiarizes students with social -scientific methods for large  scale data analysis and visualization, including the application of relevant  user and concept networks, time and spatial models, sentiment mapping, and  comparison of matrices.  In addition, the use of germane software in emerging  and digital media research is developed.  Most importantly, however, this course  has a dual structure where students learn to not only carry our advanced  analyses of large datasets, they also engage with how to visually represent with  a wide-ranging skillset to scrape data, mine data, and present data in fields of  specific areas of inquiry.		

COM EM 761: Emergin Media Special Topics
	Selected issues in mobile communication and social media.  This course  investigates a series of emerging issues concerning the communication aspects of  mobile and social media technology.  Lectures by the instructor will be  supplemented by guest commentaries and discussion, field trips and the  presentation by students of their semester-long research projects.  There will  be extensive weekly reading assignments, weekly reaction papers and a term  paper.  The term paper is to be based on original inquiry and data collection.   Among the topics covered during the semester are public participation in  governmental policy via social media, the reception of new technology such as  Google Glass, personal privacy effects of big data, prospects for citizen  journalism, and the effects of mobile communication on social interaction.  By  the end of the semester, the student should have a firm grasp of selected issues  concerning mobile and social media from both a policy and behavioral  perspective.  Enrollment is by permission of instructor.  Students interested in  taking this course should contact Prof. Katz via email and include a brief  summarized their background and explain their interest in the topic.  		

COM EM 777: Extended Group Project Wrork Seminar
	This year long course introduces students to the theories, method and  conventions of applied research in communication and the social sciences.  It  aims to do this through reading, practical applications and in-class  discussions.  Students will have the opportunity to work with local organization  (the "project sponsor") in the Boston area to design and implement a research  project.  Throughout the process, students will work closely with their peers,  the sponsor and the course instructors to develop the project and to evaluate  work in progress.		

COM FT 201: Screen Language: The Aesthetics, Grammar and Rhetoric of the Moving Image
	This course is designed to help students communicate through audio, still images   and moving pictures.  We will study how films and photographs of various kinds   communicate ideas, tell stories, and convey artistic expression.  Students will   then be given many opportunities to demonstrate their own grasp of fundaments of   communication and storytelling through images, sounds and montage.  The aim of   this course is not simply to reinforce existing rules but rather to test the   validity of those norms.  Accordingly, students will be asked both to employ and   to violate conventions.  		

COM FT 250: Understanding Film
	Understanding Film will introduce students to key aesthetic aspects of film.   Students will explore a range of styles and genres in film, including narrative  and non-fiction forms, and dominant and alternative styles.  Students will also  study a variety of historical examples of theses different styles that  illustrate the expressive possibilities of image and sound.  Finally, students  will learn to analyze and write about these formal elements, viewing both  complete films and individual sequences.  		

COM FT 303: History of Television
	In this course we will examine the ways in which industrial factors and communication policies have shaped the medium that sits in 99% of U.S. homes.  We will begin by examining television's roots in radio.  The remainder of the course will be broken down into three stages of television history advanced by Rogers, Epstein and Reeves (2002). The first category is TVI- the period of three-network dominance.  The next stage, TVII, is characterized by the rise of cable television and the decentering of the three networks.  We will conclude the course by considering the current stage of television- TV III- in which the era of "on demand" has further destabilized traditional notions of content, audiences, producers, scheduling and technologies.  In addition to tracing this development historically and thematically, we will confront it critically, analyzing the connections between power and money in the medium of television.		

COM FT 304: Film Industry
	A survey of current business trends in the motion picture industry. Focuses on script development; studio structure; agents, attorneys, and contracts; independent filmmaking; and distribution. 		

COM FT 201: Screen Language: The Aesthetics, Grammar and Rhetoric of the Moving Image
	This course is designed to help students communicate through audio, still images   and moving pictures.  We will study how films and photographs of various kinds   communicate ideas, tell stories, and convey artistic expression.  Students will   then be given many opportunities to demonstrate their own grasp of fundaments of   communication and storytelling through images, sounds and montage.  The aim of   this course is not simply to reinforce existing rules but rather to test the   validity of those norms.  Accordingly, students will be asked both to employ and   to violate conventions.  		

COM FT 250: Understanding Film
	Understanding Film will introduce students to key aesthetic aspects of film.   Students will explore a range of styles and genres in film, including narrative  and non-fiction forms, and dominant and alternative styles.  Students will also  study a variety of historical examples of theses different styles that  illustrate the expressive possibilities of image and sound.  Finally, students  will learn to analyze and write about these formal elements, viewing both  complete films and individual sequences.  		

COM FT 303: History of Television
	In this course we will examine the ways in which industrial factors and communication policies have shaped the medium that sits in 99% of U.S. homes.  We will begin by examining television's roots in radio.  The remainder of the course will be broken down into three stages of television history advanced by Rogers, Epstein and Reeves (2002). The first category is TVI- the period of three-network dominance.  The next stage, TVII, is characterized by the rise of cable television and the decentering of the three networks.  We will conclude the course by considering the current stage of television- TV III- in which the era of "on demand" has further destabilized traditional notions of content, audiences, producers, scheduling and technologies.  In addition to tracing this development historically and thematically, we will confront it critically, analyzing the connections between power and money in the medium of television.		

COM FT 304: Film Industry
	A survey of current business trends in the motion picture industry. Focuses on script development; studio structure; agents, attorneys, and contracts; independent filmmaking; and distribution. 		

COM FT 307: Media Evolution
			

COM FT 310: Storytelling for Film & Television
           			Required of all undergraduate students in Film & Television.  An introduction to the art and craft of storytelling through the moving image.  Particular emphasis will be given to writing short scripts.  Topics covered include character development and narrative structure as it applies to shorts, features and episodic television.		

COM FT 325: Crtve Tv Produc
	This course description is currently under construction.		

COM FT 353: Production 1
	This course description is currently under construction.		

COM FT 401: Romantic Comedies and Melodramas
           			This class will view and discuss romantic comedies and domestic melodramas made in  Hollywood in the 1930's and 1940's.  these films were some of the most popular and  culturally significant of their time, involving many of the era's best  screenwriters and directors and most prominent stars.  The films set standards for  dialogue writing, rich characterization, film performance and story structure.		

COM FT 402: Production II-Digital
           			Continuation of the study of digital field production and postproduction editing. Students develop, produce, direct, shoot, record, and edit longer-form, single-camera, location productions. Emphasis on the development of storytelling in narrative and nonfiction production. 		

COM FT 404: Asian Cinema
           			Surveys important and influential films from India, Japan, mainland China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and elsewhere in East Asia from the 1950s to the present, taking in the work of such directors as Satyajit Ray, Ozu, Mizoguchi, Kurosawa, Zhang Yimou, Tsai Ming-liang, and Wong Kar-wai. The course is designed to make students familiar with foundational styles of realism and fantasy in Asian film and with ways Asian films address changes and evolution in Asian culture and society. The course should help students understand certain traditions in Asian film, and prepare them to engage critically with the ever burgeoning, new, and compelling filmmaking that comes from this part of the world. 		

COM FT 410: Seminar: Television, Culture, and Society
	Using a seminar format and selected screenings, the course constructively explores topics that have given rise to public debate about television. Issues may change from semester to semester but include violence, sexuality, commercialism, stereotyping, children's programs, and specific controversial genres, such as cartoons, action/adventure, and news. Students contribute their own discussion papers and audiovisual materials. 		

COM FT 411: Screenwriting II
           			Writing the feature-length narrative film; creation of characters, narrative outline; writing the first draft of an original screenplay. 		

COM FT 412: Screenwriting III
           			Writing an original (second) feature-length screenplay (a first draft and set of revisions required). Further study of dramatic structure: tone and rhythm.		

COM FT 456: Acting for Directors and Writers
	Develops the director's knowledge and understanding of actors --the "human equipment" of filmmaking--through direct acting experience. Students learn the language and tools of the craft through sensory exercises, improvisation, text analysis, and scene study. 		

COM FT 457: American Masterworks
	Subjects vary with the instructor. Directors discussed include D. W. Griffith, Charlie Chaplin, Buster Keaton, King Vidor, Frank Borzage, Victor Fleming, Howard Hawks, Frank Capra, Alfred Hitchcock, John Ford, John Huston, Elia Kazan, George Cukor, Orson Welles, Robert Altman, John Cassavetes, and Woody Allen. 		

COM FT 458: International Masterworks
	Subjects vary with the instructor. Directors discussed include Carl Dreyer, Satyajit Ray, Sergei Eisenstein, V. I. Pudovkin, Jean Renoir, Rene Clair, Andrzej Wajda, Jean-Luc Godard, Michelangelo Antonioni, Federico Fellini, Ingmar Bergman, Akira Kurosawa, Bernardo Bertolucci, and Luis Buñuel. 		

COM FT 465: Hi-Def Production
           			This course allows students to write, shoot, edit and complete a   short "film" entirely in the High Definition digital video format.    Students use state-of-the-art High Definition cameras and complete the post-production process in the new Ezratti HD Lab created for High Definition editing and screening.  The "films" are produced   using professional actors and are targeted for film festival entry.    A previous project from this class won the First Place prize at the 2009 Redstone Film Festival. 2nd Sem 		

COM FT 468: Production III - Film
           			Students apply to the class as director, producer, cinematographer, editor or sound designer. Directors submit scripts for consideration. The film production faculty then selects eight directors, based on the scripts and the student?s previous work. Faculty then selects the producers, cinematographers, editors and sound designers based on their work in FT 403, their ability to work as a team, and their performance in other related classes. The eight directors form production teams to make eight thesis-quality films. Maximum running time for each film is fifteen minutes.		

COM FT 491: Directed Studies
           			Individual projects; opportunity for advanced students who have completed a major portion of their degree requirements to engage in-depth tutorial study with specific faculty in an area not normally covered by regular curriculum offerings. 		

COM JO 516: Foreign Reporting
		This course covers the practical, critical, and theoretical issues involved in reporting the world for domestic audiences. How can journalists best report on different cultures? How can they demystify ?the other? for their readers and viewers? How do you work with a ?fixer?? Manage your own trauma? Stay safe? How does 19th  Century colonialism still influence foreign coverage and how do you escape this influence? What?s to be learned from Conrad?s ?Heart of Darkness? about reporting on Africa? When is ?personalizing? the news a bad idea and when is a good time to do it? Students read outstanding examples of foreign reporting, workshop their stories, and learn how to be successful given the current standards for foreign reporting. However, in light of such challenges as globalization, global warming, ethnonational conflict, and the rise of China, the class also debates how to develop better norms in the future.  4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 519: Narrative Radio
	Students will produce in depth, narrative audio stories similar to what is heard on public radio. They will use digital recorders and Protools audio software. Students will also produce slide shows using Soundslides. Most stories will air on WBUR and WTBU. 		

COM JO 520: Advanced Production and Design
	This is a studio course where students learn to design for web and print. Students will design sample pages for two online/print magazines on topics of their own choosing in the categories of visual arts, music, and culture/issues/ideas. Students will design with and master Dreamweaver, QuarkXPress, Adobe Photoshop, and Adobe Illustrator. The aim of this course is to enhance communication through visual language. Typography and the use of images are explored as creative/innovative ideas are developed. All projects will be portfolio pieces. 4 cr,  either sem.		

COM JO 522: Professional Photo Portfolio
	A course preparing students for entry into a career in visual journalism. Weekly assignments are designed so that students build a portfolio allowing them to compete for opportunities in the professional world. Students will master critical skills including story development, use of multimedia, writing, and meeting deadlines. 4 cr., 2nd sem.		

COM JO 523: The Presidency and the Media
	Students follow the week-to-week interaction of the president and the media, while examining the evolution of relations between journalists and American presidents from FDR to Clinton. 		

COM JO 524: Broadcast Sports Journalism
	Using the most effective and up-to-date technology, JO524 students produce a  weekly sports show "SportsNight." The emphasis will be on team work in producing,  writing, editing and presenting sports. Each week, you?ll be assigned a different  task and position to perform, an integral way to learn how a news/feature program  is produced. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 525: Media Law and Ethics
	An examination of the many ethical issues and dilemmas that face reporters, editors, and producers and how to resolve them with professional integrity. Danger of actions for contempt or defamation, laws of copyright and intellectual property. 		

COM JO 527: Art of Narrative Nonfiction
	An intensive seminar and workshop into techniques and strategies of narrative non-fiction reporting and writing. These would include: interviewing for narrative, creating a workable structure for long-form writing, understanding the concept of arch of narrative, developing scenes and description and understanding  the elements of revision.		

COM JO 530: Drafts of History
           			Journalism has been called "the first rough draft of history." We consider several  episodes from U.S. history and examine how the first drafts written by journalists  compare to subsequent drafts written by historians. We analyze how new evidence  and chronological distance alter understanding of important events. 4 cr., 1st  sem.		

COM JO 532: Sports Journalism Seminar Series
	Explore the issues that writers and broadcasters face as they pursue their careers in sports journalism. Each week, we invite working professionals to join us on campus discussing such topics as ethics, sports and its place in society, reporting, women in sports and how to find that first job. Students are expected to ask thoughtful questions and will be required to write an evaluation each week. A great opportunity to start the networking process. 4 cr, 1st sem.		

COM JO 533: The Essay
	This is a course about the conception, development, and expression of ideas through language. In the final analysis, the course puts front and center the process of thinking about such ideas and then persuading others of their importance and rectitude. Among the issues addressed are: the logic and structure of arguments; the articulation of a ?stance?; development of the tone, style and elegance of writing; and the parrying of counterarguments even before they are stated. Students read and analyze a variety of essays on a number of subjects, including, film, domestic politics, cultural issues, war and peace, theatre and fine arts, sexual politics, human relationships, and the training of dogs. Among the authors whose work gets read are Susan Sontag, Simon Schama, Chuck Klosterman, Ellen Willis, Woody Allen, Nick Hornby, Garry Wills, Francis Fukuyama, Joan Didion, Hannah Arendt, Samuel Huntington, and Jean-Paul Sartre. 4 cr, either sem.  		

COM JO 534: Broadcast News for Nonmajors
	Basic instruction in producing video news reports for television and/or the Internet designed for students who are not majoring in broadcast journalism. 4 cr, 2nd sem.    		

COM JO 535: Investigative and Project Reporting
	Investigative and Project Reporting is an advanced seminar that will teach  select students the practice of depth reporting and writing. Students will use a  variety of reporting techniques ? from computer database searches to shoe  leather -- in pursuit of long-term projects ideally destined for publication in  one of several professional publications that have entered into cooperative  agreements with the Boston University Department of Journalism. Among them are  The Boston Globe, Boston Magazine and the Boston Phoenix. Story subjects will  range from public system failures to questionable convictions, narrative  reconstructions to explanatory journalism. 4 cr, 2nd sem 		

COM JO 537: Digital Photography Fundamentals
		Students plan, discuss, photograph, write, and lay out picture stories in black and white and/or color.		

COM JO 538: Feature Writing
		Writing feature articles for newspapers, magazines and other media. Covers markets open to free-lance writers, published articles, newspaper feature sections, and Sunday supplements. Offered only in the summer, for undergraduates and graduate students.		

COM JO 542: the Literature of Journalism
	This course examines the works of prominent literary journalists, and explores   different voices and styles in the genre. The course also seeks to track the   evolution of nonfiction narrative in American journalism, starting with Mark Twain   and continuing to the present.  		

COM JO 545: Reporting Military Affairs
	The role of the press in covering international conflicts, as well as the responsibilities of the press to cover military policies, procedures, and programs during peacetime. 		

COM JO 546: Statehouse Program
	The prime component of The Boston Statehouse Program, this advanced study in government and political reporting offers the opportunity to write and report from Beacon Hill for a Massachusetts daily. The course goal is to develop writing and reporting skills through the daily experience of covering state government. Students acquire the skills necessary to work in a daily news environment, including interviewing, developing sources, archival research and deadline writing.		

COM JO 550: Advanced Online Journalism
           			This course focuses on producing long-form, interactive multimedia news. Working in teams, print, broadcast and photojournalism students learn to produce documentary style multimedia packages that combine still photography, audio, video and text. The course will offer an overview of techniques and best practices currently employed by news organizations to produce advanced multimedia projects for the web. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 702: Advanced Science Writing
	Students learn to research, organize, and write a major magazine article of publishable quality. Projects for the course, with appropriate revision, may be submitted in lieu of a separate master's project. 		

COM FT 711: Screenwriting I
	Exclusively for screenwriting graduate students, an introduction to principles  of drama, screenplay structure characterization, screenplay description and  dialogue through lecture and discussion of produced screenplays.  Students begin  with exercises and then write outlines/treatments in preparation for completing  a first act (approximately 30 pages) and full treatment of an original feature  screenplay. Student work will be discussed in workshop format.		

COM FT 712: Television, Culture, and Society
	Issues of content, representation, regulation, effects, and ethics in television. Specific areas include children's programming, representation of women and ethnic groups, violence, educational, and prosocial aspects. Also covers methods of social inquiry, including students' own practical assignments. 		

COM FT 713: Screenwriting II
		Students compose a feature-length film and a set of revisions based upon the film outline created in COM FT 711. Further examples of dramatic structure are analyzed from the library of world cinema.		

COM FT 716: Video Production II
		Emphasizes longer-form television programs and stresses the role of the producer/director. Course includes both documentary and dramatic productions using both field and studio equipment and techniques.		

COM FT 721: International Masterworks
	A selective survey of important films from outside the United States from the earlier twentieth century to the present.  Films will be selected to represent important stylistic movements in film history, such as Expressionism and Surrealism, and to represent diverse possibilities for what the medium of the feature theatrical film can accomplish.  The course will include work of such directors as Eisenstein, Murnau, Lang, Renoir, Rossellini, Mizoguchi, Bergman, Antonioni, Buñuel, Ray, Godard, Sembène, Akerman, and Kiarostami.  The course will concentrate on analysis of individual films and will develop skills for shot-by-shot reading and critical writing. 		

COM FT 722: American Masterworks
	Subjects vary with instructor. Directors include: D.W.Griffith, Charlie Chaplin, Buster Keaton, King Vidor, Frank Borzage, Victor Fleming, Howard Hawks, Frank Capra, Alfred Hitchcock, John Ford, John Huston, Elia Kazan, George Cukor, Orson Welles, Robert Altman, John Cassavetes, and Woody Allen. 		

COM FT 723: Amrcan Indepndt
			

COM FT 724: Screenwriting 3
			

COM FT 727: Creative Producing I
	An introductory course that takes the student through the various stages of production beginning with a concept and ending with a full-fledged, camera-ready proposal. Students are introduced to issues of finance, scheduling, and organization; they learn what a producer must do to keep budget and concept on track. 		

COM FT 728: Creating New Ideas With Existing Content
	 Introduces students to the tools and techniques used to produce multi-platform content. Students learn multimedia concepts, elements,  and production to extend the brands of properties and to attract new audiences. Training in the use of computer-based hardware and software for multimedia creation. 4 cr. Fall/spring		

COM FT 729: Script Analysis
	TK		

COM FT 730: Screen Adaptation I
		More than half of Oscar nominated films are literary adaptations.  This course analyses the current commercial and artistic reasons behind the surge in adaptations, touches upon adaptation theory, and studies novels and short stories that have been adapted for film.  Student's present papers on film adaptations and adapt a short story.		

COM FT 731: Screen Writing IV
		In this fourth of the MFA screenwriting students' screenwriting workshop courses, students write a feature screenplay, write coverage on each other's work, and study films that shed light on their projects.  		

COM FT 801: Avid Film Composer
           			fgsmdfjhsa fgjhsdg fkhshgdf		

COM FT 808: Line Producing
		Required of all Film Production graduate students, this course covers all aspects of what is sometimes called "physical production--" the logistics of making a media project. Topics covered include contracts, rights, negotiation strategies, working with and without unions, crew responsibilities, scheduling and budgeting. Students apply the lessons covered to actual projects that they take through the first phases of pre-production.		

COM FT 825: Thesis Project
	Creation of an original work in any one of four areas: producing; scriptwriting; directing/production; or a research paper. One-on-one advisor supervision throughout the entire process.		

COM FT 849: Film Production I
	A practical, hands-on introduction to film production techniques. Lectures and demonstrations cover such topics as cinematography, studio and location lighting, sound recording, transferring, bench and flatbed editing, and sound mixing. Workshops and assignments coincide with lectures to give students practical experience and extensive hands-on training. Each student produces a short 16 mm film, which must be brought to the interlock stage (edited picture and separate mixed magnetic sound track) by the end of the semester. 		

COM FT 850: Film Production II
		Students master the equipment and techniques of synchronous sound filming. Using a range of professional sync cameras and Nagra tape recorders, students complete several shooting and editing assignments and, working in groups of three, write and produce a short dramatic film. Emphasis is placed on shooting coverage of scenes to allow for dramatic editing possibilities. 		

COM FT 851: Thesis Preparation
	This course, required of second semester film production graduate students, explores the aesthetic and technical parameters of the short film format with the goal of celebrating the short form as a genre unto itself.  Students also develop and write their thesis scripts in preparation for thesis production the following year.		

COM FT 852: Thesis Project
	Devoted to completion of thesis projects in film production and film studies.		

COM FT 527: Lighting
		An intensive combination of lecture, demonstration, and hands-on work in lighting. Film and video systems, from the camera to the transfer, are explained, explored, and used. Guest lecturers and field trips to production facilities and shooting locations are included. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM FT 529: Michael Haneke
			

COM FT 533: American Independent Film
	A survey of cinema from the past three decades originating outside of the studio system. Though the screening list changes from semester to semester, filmmakers to be dealt with include Elaine May, Barbara Loder, John Cassavetes, Robert Kramer, Mark Rappaport, and Charles Burnett, among others. 		

COM FT 535: Film Analysis
	Focuses on a particular director (Godard, Hitchcock, Altman, Losey, Bergman, etc.), period, or style (film noir, suspense), and studies how meaning is structured and perceived in the screen image. Includes viewing and analysis of narrative strategies in selected films. 		

COM FT 536: Film Theory and Criticism
	An introduction to classical and contemporary film and media theory.  Topics include montage theory, realism, structuralism, post-structuralism, semiotics, psychoanalysis, phenomenology, and cultural studies.  The course includes screenings of films that have contributed to critical debate and those that challenge theoretical presuppositions.		

COM FT 537: Third Wrld Cnma
			

COM FT 540: Screenplay as Dramatic Literature
	Screenplays may be read as literature as well as be produced as films. In this course the literary and dramatic art of the screenplay is analyzed, and the screenplay as a form is perceived to be nothing less than a little brother to stage play.		

COM FT 543: Television Situational Comedy
           			The American television situation comedy has been an enormously popular and  powerful art form.  This course traces the growth of the sitcom genre from the  beginnings in the early 1950's up to the present time and analyzes how American  life has been influenced by it.  We look at how sitcoms affected popular  perception of working class, race, ethnicity, idealized family life and then the  growth of different family structures, fantasy and war.  We study how sitcoms  initially portrayed women and then the emerging changes in response to the  feminist movement.  We analyze Norman Lear's series which talked about the real  things Americans were saying but in the privacy of their homes and the  revolution that his series created.  Finally we examine anti-family satire and  take a close look at contemporary single life, both straight and gay.		

COM FT 544: Documentary Production
		This course is designed to develop skills necessary for producing long-form  documentaries. There is an emphasis on exploring new, more engaging forms of  storytelling and a broad range of stylistic approaches.  It covers the entire  process: finding a topic, developing a story structure, conceiving a style,  shooting, editing, and post-production.  Students develop their own ideas and  form small groups to produce them. 		

COM FT 545: Television and Childhood
	Examines the important role played by television in child development and culture, with special reference to the provision and content of programming for children of different ages, from preschool to adolescence. 		

COM FT 546: New German Cine
			

COM FT 547: HISTAVANTGARDE1
			

COM FT 548: Antionionibergm
			

COM FT 549: The Profane
	Explores a wide variety of topics concerning censorship, feminist theory, feminism, psychoanalytical theories, pornography, voyeurism, repression, homosexuality, rape, body image, and national identities as exemplified through a large selection of films considered "Profane"/scandalous/ "X-rated", touching upon uncanny regions in which one is "never at home". Further discussion will include an examination of the cultural and historical factors that  serve as background for the themes explored and presented in the selected films.		

COM FT 550: Scandinavian Cinema
	This course traces the major discourses that have developed around the Dogme'95 movement. The major focus of this class is to study the work, vision, influences and contribution of Lars Von Trier to the New Scandinavian Cinema and its assorted practitioners. We will attempt to perceive and critique Von Trier's vision as a site for understanding cultural dynamics of European and American Societies. The course is organized chronologically to structure and present the development of both Trier's work and evolvement of the Dogme 95' movement. Some of the readings are assigned around those concerns.  		

COM FT 551: Designing the Short Film
	 This course explores the aesthetic and technical parameters of the short film format, with the goal of celebrating Short Film, as a genre in and of itself. 4cr. either sem.		

COM FT 552: Special Topics
	See the Department of Film and Televison for specifics. 		

COM FT 553: Special Topics
		Topics and instructors vary each semester.  Details are available from the Department of Film and Television.  Recent offerings have included Writing Episodic Drama.		

COM FT 554: Special Topics
	Details are available from the department of Film and Television. Topics and  instructor vary each semester. Recent topics have included the films of John  Cassavetes, Mike Leigh, and Rainer Fassbinder; the Blacklist; Low Brow Comedy.		

COM FT 555: The Narrative Documentary Practicum
	This practicum, designed for advanced film and television production students, focuses on the highly specialized filmmaking techniques used for the narrative documentary; that is, character-driven films about real people. The course also explores this tradition's rich legacy: from the Russians of the 1920s, through the CV movement of the 1960s, and on to the present day host of new films spawned by digital filmmaking technology.   		

COM CM 301: Principles and Practices of Public Relations
	An introduction to the field of public relations: its theoretical origins, scope, and principles. Discussion focuses on researching problems, setting objectives, identifying audiences, designing messages, choosing communication channels, and evaluating results for all types of organizations. Ethical decision making, on-line communication, and career opportunities are also analyzed case studies in the field. The format is a combination of informal lecture and small-group discussion, case analysis, and guest lecture. 		

COM CM 303: Organizational Structure and Behavior
	Principles and practices in organizing and directing work flow in light of current findings from sociology, psychology, and industrial management studies. Topics covered include leadership, motivation, goal attainment, and other concepts against a background of organizational theory.		

COM CM 311: Professional Presentation
	Students will learn the essentials of effective presentation, from preparation  (audience analysis, content development) to critical thinking when presenting.   This course is designed to help students to incorporate theories and skills of  effective communication in a variety of contests.  Using a combination of  lecture, discussion and hands-on practice and simulation, this course is  designed to place students in common business and social settings that require a  mastery of oral presentation skills in order to be successful.  This course will  also include instruction on the effective use of presentation software and  interactive technology.		

COM CM 313: Corporate Communication
           			Explores the trends and issues affecting corporations, crisis management, public affairs communication, consumer affairs, employee relations, environmental problems, and issues of multinationals. Uses case studies. 		

COM CM 317: Introduction to Advertising
	Explores the history, nature, function, and social and economic aspects of advertising: ethical responsibilities, psychological appeals, marketing, media research, product analysis, creative strategies, and agency operation. Students prepare comprehensive advertising plans including marketing strategy and speculative advertising campaigns. 		

COM CM 321: Mass Communication Research
	Introduction to the philosophy and process of social-scientific research and the most common methods used to study mass communication. Includes a variety of research methods, an examination of data-analysis procedures, and an analysis of mass communication issues. 		

COM CM 323: Design and New Media
	Provides knowledge and practice for effective graphic design for all media.  Develops a foundation in design principles and software skills including Illustrator, Photoshop, and InDesign.  Students create projects demonstrating how graphic design is used to engage an audience and enhance comprehension of all forms of mass communication from traditional print to new media.  4 cr, either sem.		

COM CM 331: Writing for Communication
           			Intensive exposure to some of the basic writing formats in communications: news releases, letters, features, and profiles. Lead writing, editing, and techniques of interviewing. Extensive writing and rewriting. Develop basic writing skills for various audiences. 		

COM CM 345: Public Relations in Nonprofit Settings
           			Students examine the role of managed communication and marketing in public relations problems unique to health, education, and human and public service organizations. Analysis of organizational structure, publics, public relations and communication programs, and fund-raising practices of these agencies. 		

COM CM 380: Theory and Process of Communication
	Focuses on the processes and consequences of both interpersonal and mass communication and how they differ. Discussions include the nature of verbal and nonverbal communication and the role of language in cognitive processing. Review of the factors that have shaped the nature of contemporary media, their content, and their audiences. Examines theories of the process and effects of mass communication and how these related to the goals and activities of professional communicators. 		

COM CM 405: New & Traditional Media Strategies
           			Examines media planning, buying, and sales as performed by advertising agencies, clients and the media.  Research sources providing data on media audiences and product usage are evaluated.  Examines contemporary trends in communications media and their effects on advertisers. 4 cr. either sem.		

COM CM 409: Persuasion and Public Opinion
	The theories, strategy, and techniques of persuasion as a means of shaping public opinion and attitudes. How individuals, business, government, and institutions craft messages and communicate through the press, entertainment media, advertising, and public relations. Ascertaining and understanding the beliefs, attitudes, and values of groups and society. 		

COM CM 410: NSAC
	National Student Advertising Competition gives students the opportunity to participate in organizing and managing and executing a real world marketing communications program for a major brand. The class will represent BU in a national competition held in late spring.  2 cr, either sem. 		

COM CM 411: Art Direction
           			A course for students interested in pursuing a creative career as an art director. Through real-world assignments, creative critiques, lectures and case studies, students strengthen conceptual and visual decision-making skills required to create effecive advertising communication. This is a hands-on, idea driven course. Assignment work product will include ideas executed in a range of media as well as package design and corporate identity. Experience using the industry graphics software will be helpful. 4 cr. On Demand		

COM CM 412: Consumer Insight & Account Planning
           			Explores how to arrive at consumer insights that lead to better advertising and promotion.  The course focuses on the set of skills necessary to create breakthrough advertising, including qualitative research, observation, interviewing skills, mapping, and presentation tools.  Students learn to write effective, creative briefs.  4 cr. 2nd sem		

COM CM 416: Strategic Brand Solutions
           			Explores the impact of current advertising and marketing issues from business, economic, political, social, legal, and ethical perspectives. Modified case method, with lectures from experts on selected issues. 		

COM CM 417: Fundamentals of Creative Development
           			Focus is on the strategic creative process in advertising including concept development, copywriting, visualization, and design. Assignments require conceiving solutions to client marketing challenges across a range of media. Teaches foundations for development of effective advertising: problem definition, strategic development, and conceptual idea generation through tangible executions. 4 cr. either semester		

COM CM 419: Advertising Management
           			Administration of a complete advertising program. Case-study method used to explore the marketing mix, budgeting, medial strategy, planning, coordinating advertising with promotion, working with client or agency, and the social responsibility of advertisers. 		

COM CM 420: Ad Lab
           			Experience in student-run, full-service advertising agency. Students organize, manage, and perform all functions: solicit business, perform market and consumer research, contact clients, write plans, create advertising campaigns, evaluate media, and prepare campaign evaluations for community-service agencies. 		

COM CM 421: AdLab E-Board
           			This course represents the management function of the student-run AdLab.   2 or 4 cr., either sem.		

COM CO 101: The World of Communication
           			Introduces students to many fundamental principles of communication.  Students also learn about the intertwined nature of communication professions as they explore the major fields of study in communication.  Guest lectures from various industries inform students of potential future career paths. CO101 is required of all students in the College of Communication, including transfer students, IUT students, and DDP students. Students must receive a "C" or higher in CO101 in order to proceed further into COM. 		

COM CO 102: Special Seminars
	COM 102 offers multiple sections each semester in a variety of student services, career services and technological topics. These ?added-value? seminars do not count toward graduation requirements, but do offer valuable insight and tools to be successful in your college career and beyond.		

COM CO 201: Introduction to Communication Writing
           			The College of Communication's core undergraduate writing course. Students refresh their grammatical and stylistic skills and apply those skills to professional writing assignments. Prepares students to write with clarity, conciseness, precision, and accuracy for the communication fields.		

COM CO 401: Radio Station Practicum
	This is  a seminar for students interested in managing the student-run radio station, WTBU.  It is open to students who serve on the executive board of WTBU.  Students will manage all facets of the radio station including music programing, sportscasting, news reporting, promotions, underwriting, website management, and technical equipment.  Students will learn how to accomplish specific goals in improving the professionalism of the station and increasing the audience of WTBU.  varilbe credit/ either sem.		

COM CO 704: Teaching Techniques
	Required for and open only to COM CO 101 graduate teaching assistants. Designed to acquaint teaching assistants with strategies for effective teaching and equip them with techniques for conducting the basic undergraduate communication course. Students increase their proficiency in leading discussion sections, appraising student progress, and handling problem situations. 		

COM JO 451: Television Newsroom
           			Students produce a half hour newscast, broadcast on cable TV and the Internet, with live coverage and video reports on local, national and international news as well as sports highlights and weather. Students rotate positions weekly, using television studios and the control booth, collaborating to broadcast a fresh, informative and accurate newscast while facing the daily deadlines of a working newsroom.   4 cr, 1st sem.  		

COM JO 490: Directed Studies
		Students work with faculty on individual research, professional training, or special studies. 		

COM JO 491: Directed Studies: Broadcast Journalism
		Students work with faculty on individual research, professional training, or special studies. 		

COM JO 500: Media Criticism
	How well have the media covered the war in Iraq? Do the media have political biases? What effect has Fox News had on the mainstream media? In the face of growing competition from the Internet, what is the future of traditional journalism? Do news-oriented personalities such as Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert elevate or debase the political process? This timely course takes a critical look at the strengths, weaknesses and limitations of the media, including current media controversies. 4 cr. either sem. 		

COM JO 501: Introduction to Business and Economic Reporting
		Comprehensive training in writing business and economics stories, using articles in The Wall Street Journal and other publications as examples.  Emphasis on developing clear, simple language to describe complex issues.  Articles may be published in teh Worcester Telegram and Gazette.  No previous economics or business experience is required.  4cr. either sem 		

COM JO 502: Journalism Special Topics
		Every year several courses have been created under this category to examine current journalism issues in seminar format.  See the department for specifics.		

COM JO 503: Journalism Research
	A rigorous grounding in research and investigative methods from interviews and records searching to computer-assisted reporting and use of the Freedom of Information Act.  		

COM JO 504: Arts Criticism
	This course explores the nature of arts and entertainment criticism, and helps students develop their critical writing skills. Topics include: structuring a review; critical biases; profiling celebrities from a critical perspective; cultural criticism - how to write about entertainment or the arts to make broader points about our culture; and, style - how to get it. Assignments include TV, film and theater reviews, screenings and a trip to a Boston theater. Guest speakers feature some of Boston's most prominent critics. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 506: Columns and Editorials
		This is a course in writing with a point of view.  It includes instruction in op-ed columns as well as personal columns, which are short personal essays.		

COM JO 508: Electronic Copy Editing
           			This course is designed to train copy editors for newspapers, magazines, and the Internet. The primary focus is on newspapers, but other applications are also considered. Class sessions will focus on writing and editing/copying editing skills, and layout and design skills using Quark Xpress. 4 cr, both sem.		

COM JO 511: Covering Government and Politics
	This class provides instruction in the covering the legislative process, analyzing data, interviewing, and developing beats. Students will learn writing techniques to help readers understand significance issues. Guest lectures, readings and exercises explore the dynamics of political and public affairs reporting. Taken in tandem with JO546 (Filing for Newspapers) as part of the Boston Statehouse Program and offered separately to graduate and undergraduate broadcast majors in coordination with the broadcast department. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 512: Editorial Design
	This is a studio course where students learn to design for print. Students will design a newsletter and sample pages for a magazine on topics of their own choosing. Students will learn and design with QuarkXPress, Adobe Photoshop, and Adobe Illustrator.   This course covers the principles of typography, composition, and visual language and encourages creative/innovative ideas. All projects will be portfolio pieces.		

COM JO 513: Advanced Photojournalism
		An intensive course designed to give students the skills necessary to produce   professional quality work meeting publication standards, with emphasis on   storytelling in the visual medium.  Weekly assignments require students to   produce original picture packages complete with written material and captions.		

COM JO 514: Sports Journalism
	A specialized writing course for students interested in a career in sports journalism. Covers game stories, features, columns, and profiles, as well as examining sport as a commercial enterprise. 		

COM JO 515: Multimedia for Photojournalists
		Required for photojournalism graduate students.  Throughout this course students   produce multimedia stories, build a website and launch an online photo gallery   of best work.Students learn traditional photo editing skills utilizing a modern   workflow.  Students are encouraged to be innovarted in storytelling approach,   using photo, video, audio and text, and self-publish professional work on their   own website.		

COM JO 516: Foreign Reporting
		This course covers the practical, critical, and theoretical issues involved in reporting the world for domestic audiences. How can journalists best report on different cultures? How can they demystify ?the other? for their readers and viewers? How do you work with a ?fixer?? Manage your own trauma? Stay safe? How does 19th  Century colonialism still influence foreign coverage and how do you escape this influence? What?s to be learned from Conrad?s ?Heart of Darkness? about reporting on Africa? When is ?personalizing? the news a bad idea and when is a good time to do it? Students read outstanding examples of foreign reporting, workshop their stories, and learn how to be successful given the current standards for foreign reporting. However, in light of such challenges as globalization, global warming, ethnonational conflict, and the rise of China, the class also debates how to develop better norms in the future.  4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 519: Narrative Radio
	Students will produce in depth, narrative audio stories similar to what is heard on public radio. They will use digital recorders and Protools audio software. Students will also produce slide shows using Soundslides. Most stories will air on WBUR and WTBU. 		

COM JO 520: Advanced Production and Design
COM CM 423: Portfolio Development for Advertising
           			A course for students interested in the creative side of the advertising industry work in teams and individually to develop creative ideas, campaigns, and an entry-level portfolio of work (print, video, digital, mobile, experiential). A workshop-like environment, mirroring an advertising agency, is augmented with lectures and case studies. 4 cr. either semester		

COM CM 425: Advanced Copywriting
           			This course builds on the concept development and copywriting foundations learned in prerequisite courses.  Assignments will require the creation of copy for a range of audience segments and media channels. Students will learn to shape copy for video, digital, print, and social media. 4 cr. 1st semester		

COM CM 437: Portfolio Development II
           			A continuation of Portfolio Development I, this course continues the iterative process required to construct a competitive advertising portfolio. Students work to refine concepts, revise and strengthen the impact of the art direction and copywriting, and determine how the work should ultimately be displayed. 4 cr. 1st semester		

COM CM 441: Media Relations
           			Students study a variety of publicity tactics (news conferences, feature placements, special events, and media tours), which they combine into publicity campaign plans. Involves lectures, in-class discussions, video cases, and individual take-home cases. Students are encouraged to plan campaigns in their area of interest. 		

COM CM 443: New Media and PR
           			Explores the effects of new media on the fundamental theories, models, and practices of public relations.  Studies how websites, blogs, citizen journalism, social media, direct-to-consumer communication, podcasting, viral marketing, and other technology-enabled changes are affecting interpersonal, small group, and mass media relationships.  Also covers and uses the interactive tools that are re-defining the practice of public relations.  The course combines lecture, discussion, guest speakers, case study, and research to help students uncover and appreciate the power and potential of interactive media.  4 cr, either sem 		

COM CM 471: Communication Internship
           			Students are placed in advertising and public relations agencies, communication departments of firms, sales departments of firms, sales departments of media, and sales promotion agencies. Minimum of 15 hours per week during school semesters, or full time during the summer. Instructor and sponsor oversee student work. A comprehensive final report completes coursework. 		

COM CM 473: PRLab
           			PRLab at Boston University is the nation's oldest student run public relations  agency.  PRLab allows students to gain valuable industry experience in an agency  style setting, working in the corporate, nonprofit and government sectors.   Students engage in media relations, event planning, branding, copy editing,  content creation and social media management.  Over the course of the semester,  students create professional portfolios.		

COM CM 474: Directed Study
           			Individual or group project on specific problems in communication.		

COM CM 475: PR E-Board
           			This course represents the management function of the student run PRLab. The PRLab  Executive board consists of a President, Vice President and several Account  Supervisors, who work together to facilitate the overall success of the student- client interactions and PRLab as a whole.  The E-Board is also responsible for  PRLab's branding and new business acquisition.		

COM CM 481: Law of Communication
	Study of the laws that apply to communication practitioners. Topics covered include the First Amendment, defamation, invasion of privacy, copyright, regulation of advertising, obscenity, and indecency, and the emerging field of cyberspace law. 4 cr, 2nd sem 		

COM CM 508: Video Production for Marketing Communication
	An introduction to the techniques and principles used in designing and directing video productions for advertising and public relations purposes. Use of videography, composition, color, lighting, editing, sound, and special effects in producing news releases, interviews, talk shows, and commercials. 		

COM CM 510: Computers in Communication
	This course introduces students to using new media tools as a source and vehicle for creating expression and media communication.  Students will acquire building blocks for design thinking and hands-on skills to successfully communicate ideas using media technology.  Students will experience the design process:  ideation to execution.  Topics on Media Technology, interface design, information architecture, and interaction design will be covered.  4 cr, either sem.		

COM CM 513: Investor Relations
		Students examine the challenges of marketing a company to the financial community. The course is broken down into three areas: the development of IR as a profession; the tools of the trade, such as bonds and stocks; and the field's communication techniques. Students prepare case analyses as a way of understanding various SEC disclosure requirements, communication with analysts and the media, and financial marketing techniques. Core public relations requirements should be fulfilled before taking this course. 		

COM CM 514: New Communication Technologies
	Course prepares students for careers in an environment of constant technological development and institutional change. Provides an overview of current and near-future developments in telecommunications; a theoretical base and exercise in systems analysis for assessing the potential uses and importance of these technologies in media-related institutions; and consideration of legal, regulatory, and social issues which these technologies and their uses may raise for telecommunications and media industries and society in general. 		

COM CM 515: Community Relations
		A complete examination of the evolution of community relations, the theory behind it, and the techniques employed by its professionals. Using a case-study approach, students learn how to select a site for expansion; conduct a community relations audit; work with state, local, and federal governments; and develop sound relationships with the media and with advocacy groups in the corporate and nonprofit arenas. 		

COM CM 518: Creating Video Campaigns
		Techniques for creating television advertising that attract and hold viewer attention. Students create advertising concepts, write commercials, prepare storyboards, and consider the problems of casting, directing, editing, and testing. 		

COM CM 519: Interactive Marketing Communications
		An overview of the theories, practices and techniques in the emerging field of interactive marketing communications (IAMC). Students gain an understanding of the strategy and tactics of IAMC and its place in the more comprehensive business of marketing communications.  in addition students review IAMC's relationship to and its effect on society, culture and the economic system.  4 cr, either sem.		

COM CM 520: the COMmunicator
COM FT 560: The Documentary
	Surveys the history of the documentary and the changes brought about by the advent of television. Examines the outlook for the documentary idea in national and international markets. Periodic highlighting of special areas such as the portrayal of war, historical events, drama-documentary, and propaganda. Students develop critical and professional skills. Lectures, screenings, discussions. 		

COM FT 561: Television Drama
	Surveys the history of television drama from its "live" beginnings in the 1950s to contemporary taped and filmed series, mini-series, and specials. The critical evaluation of such forms as sitcoms, soap operas, and regularly scheduled dramatic series from the perspective of the producer, writer, and director. Lectures, screenings, writing reviews, and discussions. 		

COM FT 563: French New Wave
	A comprehensive survey of the most important directors and films of this vital movement, which arguably changed the course of world cinema. Directors include Godard, Charbol, Rohmer, Truffaut, Resnais, and Varda.  In addition to class screenings, some outside viewing may be required.		

COM FT 565: Motion Picture Editing
		This is an advanced editing class in which students edit challenging and complex projects using Avid software. Students edit scenes from features and episodic television shows that were shot using single camera techniques, as well as multi-camera material, such as sitcoms and music concerts. Students learn rhythm and pacing, when and where to make a cut, how to increase the emotional content of a scene, ways to propel the story forward, and the proper use of sound, effects, titles and music. Students must have previously taken a production class that used Avid software.		

COM FT 567: Film Styles
	"Style" is a term that crops up routinely in discussions of film, but does it really mean anything? Through the careful study of a broad variety of films, we will compile a catalog of stylistic components which critic and filmmaker alike can use to think more clearly about this slippery concept. How does one create a style? How does style influence narrative? What tools does a director use to create a distinctive style? Using feature films and film clips, this course will answer these and other questions about film style.		

COM FT 569: Holocaust on Film
	Holocaust on Film examines the aesthetics of filmic texts which place the experience of the Holocaust at the center of their investigation.		

COM FT 573: BUTV
	Provides students with the opportunity to develop and product television programs for student television station BUTV10, and for student -operated production group, Growling Dog Productions.		

COM FT 574: BUTV
	Provides students with the opportunity to develop and produce television programs for closed-circuit and, possibly, cable-access distribution, and to produce low-budget videos for nonprofit organizations. 		

COM FT 575: Renoir&Beunel
			

COM FT 576: Globalnewwaves
			

COM FT 577: Godard
			

COM FT 578: 3MASTERDIRECTRS
			

COM FT 579: Eurodirectors
			

COM FT 580: Subversvecine
			

COM FT 581: Thrdwrlddirctrs
			

COM FT 583: Filmtraumaloss
			

COM FT 593: Introduction to Cinematography
		Based on a fundamental knowledge of technical and creative procedures of film production, this course pays deeper attention to important elements of cinematography such as composition, raw stock, sensitometry, lighting, movement, colors, and space. Emphasis is on a conscious usage of pictorial elements in the picture-building process. 		

COM FT 701: Media in Evolution
	A course that examines the business of entertainment media industries. History, structure, business models, regulatory and social issues will be discussed.   An assessment of the emergence of new media businesses, and how technologies, that offer many new content distribution options, are changing the definition of traditional media. 4 cr. Fall		

COM FT 702: Script To Film
	Exclusive to Graduate Screenwriting students (required in 1st year.  An  introduction to the relationship between the written script and the image on  screen.  Through in-depth analysis, we will study screenplays, films and the  mind of the screenwriter in order to decipher the process of developing story  from character, plot and theme.  Students will be required to write expository  papers and present their own analysis of a chosen film.		

COM FT 703: Media Business Entrepreneurship
	This course will provide students with the practical knowledge and skills needed to heed the call of entrepreneurship. Classes will include guest speakers from various business sectors including venture capital professionals, angel investors, accountants, attorneys, marketing experts who are skilled in launch phases of PR, as well as media entrepreneurs who succeeded against all odds. Students will also participate in the development of a core business idea, from concept through the creation of a sound business plan as a final project/presentation. 4 cr. Fall		

COM JO 524: Broadcast Sports Journalism
	Using the most effective and up-to-date technology, JO524 students produce a  weekly sports show "SportsNight." The emphasis will be on team work in producing,  writing, editing and presenting sports. Each week, you?ll be assigned a different  task and position to perform, an integral way to learn how a news/feature program  is produced. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 525: Media Law and Ethics
	An examination of the many ethical issues and dilemmas that face reporters, editors, and producers and how to resolve them with professional integrity. Danger of actions for contempt or defamation, laws of copyright and intellectual property. 		

COM JO 527: Art of Narrative Nonfiction
	An intensive seminar and workshop into techniques and strategies of narrative non-fiction reporting and writing. These would include: interviewing for narrative, creating a workable structure for long-form writing, understanding the concept of arch of narrative, developing scenes and description and understanding  the elements of revision.		

COM JO 530: Drafts of History
           			Journalism has been called "the first rough draft of history." We consider several  episodes from U.S. history and examine how the first drafts written by journalists  compare to subsequent drafts written by historians. We analyze how new evidence  and chronological distance alter understanding of important events. 4 cr., 1st  sem.		

COM JO 532: Sports Journalism Seminar Series
	Explore the issues that writers and broadcasters face as they pursue their careers in sports journalism. Each week, we invite working professionals to join us on campus discussing such topics as ethics, sports and its place in society, reporting, women in sports and how to find that first job. Students are expected to ask thoughtful questions and will be required to write an evaluation each week. A great opportunity to start the networking process. 4 cr, 1st sem.		

COM JO 533: The Essay
	This is a course about the conception, development, and expression of ideas through language. In the final analysis, the course puts front and center the process of thinking about such ideas and then persuading others of their importance and rectitude. Among the issues addressed are: the logic and structure of arguments; the articulation of a ?stance?; development of the tone, style and elegance of writing; and the parrying of counterarguments even before they are stated. Students read and analyze a variety of essays on a number of subjects, including, film, domestic politics, cultural issues, war and peace, theatre and fine arts, sexual politics, human relationships, and the training of dogs. Among the authors whose work gets read are Susan Sontag, Simon Schama, Chuck Klosterman, Ellen Willis, Woody Allen, Nick Hornby, Garry Wills, Francis Fukuyama, Joan Didion, Hannah Arendt, Samuel Huntington, and Jean-Paul Sartre. 4 cr, either sem.  		

COM JO 534: Broadcast News for Nonmajors
	Basic instruction in producing video news reports for television and/or the Internet designed for students who are not majoring in broadcast journalism. 4 cr, 2nd sem.    		

COM JO 535: Investigative and Project Reporting
	Investigative and Project Reporting is an advanced seminar that will teach  select students the practice of depth reporting and writing. Students will use a  variety of reporting techniques ? from computer database searches to shoe  leather -- in pursuit of long-term projects ideally destined for publication in  one of several professional publications that have entered into cooperative  agreements with the Boston University Department of Journalism. Among them are  The Boston Globe, Boston Magazine and the Boston Phoenix. Story subjects will  range from public system failures to questionable convictions, narrative  reconstructions to explanatory journalism. 4 cr, 2nd sem 		

COM JO 537: Digital Photography Fundamentals
		Students plan, discuss, photograph, write, and lay out picture stories in black and white and/or color.		

COM JO 538: Feature Writing
		Writing feature articles for newspapers, magazines and other media. Covers markets open to free-lance writers, published articles, newspaper feature sections, and Sunday supplements. Offered only in the summer, for undergraduates and graduate students.		

COM JO 542: the Literature of Journalism
	This course examines the works of prominent literary journalists, and explores   different voices and styles in the genre. The course also seeks to track the   evolution of nonfiction narrative in American journalism, starting with Mark Twain   and continuing to the present.  		

COM JO 545: Reporting Military Affairs
	The role of the press in covering international conflicts, as well as the responsibilities of the press to cover military policies, procedures, and programs during peacetime. 		

COM JO 546: Statehouse Program
	The prime component of The Boston Statehouse Program, this advanced study in government and political reporting offers the opportunity to write and report from Beacon Hill for a Massachusetts daily. The course goal is to develop writing and reporting skills through the daily experience of covering state government. Students acquire the skills necessary to work in a daily news environment, including interviewing, developing sources, archival research and deadline writing.		

COM JO 550: Advanced Online Journalism
           			This course focuses on producing long-form, interactive multimedia news. Working in teams, print, broadcast and photojournalism students learn to produce documentary style multimedia packages that combine still photography, audio, video and text. The course will offer an overview of techniques and best practices currently employed by news organizations to produce advanced multimedia projects for the web. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 702: Advanced Science Writing
	Students learn to research, organize, and write a major magazine article of publishable quality. Projects for the course, with appropriate revision, may be submitted in lieu of a separate master's project. 		

COM JO 703: Magazine Writing
	This is a course in long-form magazine journalism such as appears in the New Yorker, Harpers, Rolling Stone, Outside, and the New York Times Magazine, among other publications. The class reads and analyzes superb examples of the genre and reports, researches and writes long-from pieces of its own. Among the issues addressed in depth are: intensive, in-depth reporting and research; the writing process; the use of fine language and the development of a personal voice; the importance of a point of view; structuring long pieces; digging deeply into subjects in order to truly enlighten readers. Also discussed is a reporting and writing strategy rooted in the methods of anthropology and ethnography.  Other issues: the importance of complexity, the organic development of characters, the nature of narrative, the depiction of otherness and difference; the use of empathy; ?mindful? journalism; and the development of relationships with sources through deep preparation, emotional connectedness, and conversation (instead of Q & A).		

COM JO 704: Online Journalism for Graduate Students
	Required of journalism majors. This course introduces students to reporting,     writing and creating multi-platform journalism. Students will gain practical  experience producing and editing news and features for delivery via digital  platforms.  This class will critique and analyze news sites and examine how  multiple elements such as text, photo's audio, video, social media and  interactive graphics are currently used in multimedia reporting. 4 cr, either  sem.		

COM JO 705: Science Unbound-Writing at the Edges of Science and Society
	A course in which students read, think and write about several areas where   science and society interact, how that interaction has played out in the media   and how that has affected the public's perceptions and policy decisions.  We'll   examine three thematic areas in which science has has a particularly prickly   relationship with the media, perhaps because they touch on primal emotions:(1)   Uncertainly and Doubt, (2) Hope and Fear, and, (3) Truth and justice.  Students   will also complete a series of short to medium length magazine style pieces  suitable for front of the book sections of popular publications- such as Wired,  Discover, Technology and New Scientist.		

COM JO 707: Writing and Reporting for Broadcast News
	this introductory course is about reporting, writing and producing the news for  broadcast.  Students learn the fundamentals of news-gathering.  They report,  shoot, write, edit and produce news packages.  Topics range from breaking news  stories to political coverage and features.  Strong stories air on BUTV's  newscast and are posted on BUNS- the BU News Service website.  The course begins  with the basics: story generation, fact gathering, videography, writing,editing  and presentation.		

COM JO 712: Online Radio Newsroom
	Students produce a half-hour LIVE news show on the student radio station, WTBU, during each class. Students report, write, produce and engineer all the news, sports and commentary in the program on deadline. Students from London and State House programs file stories for the news show. Students are expected to file frequently and to critique programs from NPR, BBC, WBZ and other audio news outlets. The best productions will be pitched to WBUR and State House clients for their websites. 4 cr, 1st sem.  		

COM FT 849: Film Production I
	A practical, hands-on introduction to film production techniques. Lectures and demonstrations cover such topics as cinematography, studio and location lighting, sound recording, transferring, bench and flatbed editing, and sound mixing. Workshops and assignments coincide with lectures to give students practical experience and extensive hands-on training. Each student produces a short 16 mm film, which must be brought to the interlock stage (edited picture and separate mixed magnetic sound track) by the end of the semester. 		

COM FT 850: Film Production II
		Students master the equipment and techniques of synchronous sound filming. Using a range of professional sync cameras and Nagra tape recorders, students complete several shooting and editing assignments and, working in groups of three, write and produce a short dramatic film. Emphasis is placed on shooting coverage of scenes to allow for dramatic editing possibilities. 		

COM FT 851: Thesis Preparation
	This course, required of second semester film production graduate students, explores the aesthetic and technical parameters of the short film format with the goal of celebrating the short form as a genre unto itself.  Students also develop and write their thesis scripts in preparation for thesis production the following year.		

COM FT 852: Thesis Project
	Devoted to completion of thesis projects in film production and film studies.		

COM FT 855: Telecommunication Seminars
		Seminars by individual faculty members on topics of their choice, normally ones in which they are engaged in research or special study. Not more than two such seminars are offered in any one semester. Subjects and instructors announced before registration.		

COM FT 856: Telecommunication Seminars
		Seminars by individual faculty members on topics of their choice, normally ones in which they are engaged in research or special study. Not more than two such seminars are offered in any one semester. Subjects and instructors announced before registration.		

COM FT 951: Directed Studies
		Individual projects: opportunity for advanced graduate students who have completed a major portion of their degree requirements to engage in in-depth tutorial study with specific faculty in an area not normally covered by regular curriculum offerings.		

COM FT 952: Directed Studies
		Individual projects: opportunity for advanced graduate students who have completed a major portion of their degree requirements to engage in in-depth tutorial study with specific faculty in an area not normally covered by regular curriculum offerings.		

COM FT 953: Internship
	On-the-job experience at television stations, film and video production studios, networks, cable television operations, advertising agencies, radio stations, and corporations. Can be taken in the Boston area after the first semester of matriculation and anywhere in the country during the summer. 		

COM FT 492: Directed Studies
           			Individual projects; opportunity for advanced students who have completed a major portion of their degree requirements to engage in-depth tutorial study with specific faculty in an area not normally covered by regular curriculum offerings. 		

COM FT 493: Internship
           			Opportunity for students to gain professional experience at television and radio stations, film and video production houses, and other media institutions. Responsibilities vary. Availability depends on market needs. 		

COM FT 494: Internship
           			Opportunity for students to gain professional experience at television and radio stations, film and video production houses, and other media institutions. Responsibilities vary. Availability depends on market needs. 		

COM FT 502: Sound Design for Film and Television
		A comprehensive technical examination of the role of sound as an emotional motivator and major storytelling component in both fiction and nonfiction films. Covers location sound recording, acoustic theory, track building, foley and dialog replacement, and mix preparation, as well as music editing and composition. Introduces a variety of postproduction pathways and technologies, including current digital innovations in the field and in audio postproduction, and provides an ongoing workshop for solving editing and track building problems. 		

COM FT 504: Post production FX Editing
		This course teaches all aspects of video post production including window dubbing, rough cuts, A/B editing, non-linear editing, digital graphics, digital sound, and the integration of all of these processes and technologies that apply to the postproduction completion of video projects. Familiarity with Macintosh computers is desirable. Experience with video timecode editing is a necessity. 		

COM FT 505: Television Production Hothouse
		This is a class that operates as a student-run, client-driven production company. Projects include PSA?s for local TV stations, fundraising videos for non-profits, an occasional music video, and documentary shorts. From time to time, there will be national competitions for student productions. No application letter is necessary. 3.0 GPA required. 4 credits only.		

COM FT 507: Television Studio Production
           			Continuation of television studio production and the development of those formats that are best suited to it.  Emphasizes the creative use of studio technology. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM FT 509: Joseph Losey
			

COM FT 511: Davidcronenberg
			

COM FT 512: Writing Episodic Drama
           			Deals with the process and techniques of writing a dramatic series for commercial network and cable television.  Students will select a current prime-time drama, develop A, B, and (possibly) C stories for an episode, and complete a Writer's Draft and polished First Draft, suitable for a Writer Portfolio.  Lectures will include the life of a working television writer, one-hour story, structure, genres, and character development.  We will view and analyze TV series from the past and present, and focus on proper drama script format, character development and voice.  		

COM FT 513: Polish Cinema
			

COM FT 514: Advanced Writing for Television
		Prereq FT 512 or FT 522. Explores the development and creation of the Television Series Pilot. Each student will pitch a concept, write a treatment and a finished pilot script for an original series, either comedy or drama. Emphasis on premise, story structure, characterization and originality. Lectures, screenings, script readings, written assignments and critiques. 4 cr. 2nd sem.		

COM FT 515: International TV
	Survey of telecommunications in various nations; analysis of the impact of cultural, economic, demographic, and political factors on both their internal and external operation. Also explored is the dynamic international telecommunications field, its impact on understanding and commerce between nations, and its meaning for the United States. 		

COM FT 517: Television Management
		The responsibilities that television and multi-platform content managers face. Research, programming, revenue, regulatory issues and ethics are all explored. Lectures, readings, case studies, and visits from professionals develop the student's understanding of a variety of managerial functions and the challenges these functions entail. 4 cr. Fall/spring		

COM FT 520: Tv Theor & Crit
           					

COM FT 522: Writing Television Situation Comedy Scripts
		Intense writing workshop learning how to write professional sitcom scripts.  Elements of character, dramatic story structure, how comedy is created, how  scenes build and progress a story, formal story outlines, dialogue, the business  of sitcom writing, pitching, arc, comedic premise are analyzed. The class  becomes a sitcom writing team for a current hit series and writes an original  class spec script to understand the process of group writing employed on most  sitcoms. Also, students write their own personal spec scripts with individual  conferences with the professor.		

COM FT 523: Understanding Marketing and Sales
	A comprehensive look into the business of television and radio sales and marketing. Respected professionals occasionally guest-lecture on this important and ever changing area.		

COM FT 524:  Golden Age of Television
	Course examines the extraordinary explosion of talent and creativity in live  television's early days. It covers writers such as Paddy Chayefsky and Rod  Serling, personalities like Edward R. Murrow, entertainers Sid Caesar, Milton  Berle, Groucho Marx, Gertrude Berg, and Lucille Ball, live political broadcasts  and blacklisting, and most significantly the great anthology series like Philco  Television Playhouse, Studio One, Playhouse 90 which presented great and  original American teleplays "Marty", "Requiem for a Heavyweight", "Patterns",  "The Comedian", "The Defenders", and many more.  Also covered are the great  early TV directors John Frankenheimer, Alfred Hitchcock, Delbert Mann and actors  who began their careers in television like Paul Newman, Ed Begley, and James  Dean.  We also look at the quiz show scandals and unique series like "The  Twilight Zone." These live television shows (seen by kinescope) are of major  importance in understanding the history of television.		

COM CM 525: Public Relations Ethics
		This course will acquaint students with ethical standards and expectations society has for public relations practitioners.  Through the study of case studies and other readings it will prepare students so they can adequately wrestle with ethical complexities, dilemmas and ambiguities so as to form persona ethical underpinnings for their future careers.		

COM CM 527: Strategic Creative Development
		Today's rapidly changing digital and media landscape calls for strategic and creative solutions that take into consideration emerging consumer behaviors and the new technologies that enable them. In this course, students create content and campaigns that consider the many different ways in which brands engage with their communities - paid and earned media, mobile apps, and branded utility. 4 cr. 2nd semester		

COM CM 528: Organizational Communication
	Develops both theoretical understanding and practical knowledge of internal organizational communication. Topics include motivation, leadership, organizational climate, formal and informal channels, management, and relational communication in an organizational context. Organizational communication assessment and change is emphasized. 		

COM CM 529: Design & New Media II
           			Professional opportunities in the communication industry are constantly evolving and require graduates who are innovative, visually literate, and flexible with technology solutions.  In this course, students develop advanced  design and new media skills while participating in multi-media lectures, critiques, and hands-on software skill building. While implementing idividualized creative processes, students develop strategic projects from concept through to functional new media campaigns. The projects are continually updated to prepare students for emerging opportunities in the communications industry. 		

COM CM 535: Political Campaigning
	Critical evaluation of political campaign strategies and tactics within the sociopolitical environment. The roles of campaign managers, media consultants, pollsters, press secretaries, and field operatives are studied. Analysis of the impact of press coverage, political advertising, and candidate debates on the electorate. 		

COM CM 536: Sports Communication
	Introduces students to the tactics and strategies used in implementing sports information or public relations campaigns in the specialized areas of professional and amateur athletics.  Students should have strong writing ability.		

COM CM 555: Writing for Multimedia
		In-depth focus on promotional, client-based writing.  Course includes developing story ideas and angles; writing off and online feature stories and slide shows for trade, business, and special-interest market as well as researching and writing a treatment/script video package with accompanying brochure.  Also includes numerous multimedia workshops. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM CM 557: Media Effects
		This course introduces the study of the effects of media on individuals and on  society.  This course will overview a broad range of media theories that have  examined media as a social force, that have explored factors that affect  individuals' selection of and perceptions of media messages, and that have  studied how media affect viewers' attitudes, beliefs, and behaviors.  These  theories will be used to examine a variety of different types of content,  including media violence, portrayals of race and gender, politics, advertising,  and entertainment, among others.  4 cr., 1st sem.		

COM CM 561: Special Topics in Mass Communication
		Intensive exploration of specialized applications of communication skills.  4 cr.,  either sem.		

COM CM 701: Contemporary Public Relations
	Foundations of professional principles and practice in public relations for corporate, governmental, and nonprofit organizations. Includes history, organization, and scope of the field; its roots in social science; types of campaigns and programs; and professional ethics. Theories, strategies, and tactics in current practice emphasized. Explores opportunities and requirement for work in the field. 		

COM CM 702: Advertising and Society
	Analyzes the impact of advertising on individuals and society and evaluates the ethical, moral, and legal questions relating to the advertising industry.  The history of advertising and the rise of consumerism will be studied to create a paradigm for understanding the social effects of advertising.  Students will study the issues of advertising in cyberspace and question of privacy and protection from intrusive communication messages.		

COM CM 704: Contemporary Mass Communication
	The history, practices, business models and technologies of contemporary mass media. Topics include mass media?s forms, content, audiences and social effects; the state and fate of the printed word; the ups and downs of the Internet; media consolidation and the growing movement toward synergy; the future of independent media; and ethical and moral issues created by new technologies and old economic pressures.  4 cr, 1st sem		

COM CM 705: Writing for International Students
	Introduction to basic formats, including news releases, editorials, features, profiles, articles, and other forms of writing. Emphasis on basic copy quality in American English. Students learn to analyze and rewrite their own copy. 		

COM CM 707: Writing for Media Professionals
	Serves as introductory graduate level writing course.  Exposure to a variety of off and online writing formats in communications including:  news releases, e-pitches, blogs, features (off and online), microsites, websites, brochures, broadcast PSA?s, slide shows, videos,  off and online writing (including social media) strategies, editing, and interview techniques.  Extensive writing and rewriting.  Develops comprehensive writing skills for public relations, mass communication and advertising majors. 4 cr, 1st sem		

COM CM 708: Principles and Practices of Advertising
	Overview of the nature, function, practice, and social, economic, and behavioral aspects of advertising. Student teams develop advertising plans, create campaigns, and explore problems of account management, creativity, production, and ethics. 		

COM CM 709: Corporate Public Affairs
		Monitoring sociopolitical environment, managing corporate crises and confrontations, analyzing issues, formulating political strategies, developing programs of advocacy advertising, constituency communications, and public involvement. Case studies used. 		

COM CM 710: Communication Theory
	Examines origins, nature, and consequences of human communication. Reviews nature of verbal, nonverbal, and other types of group communication issues. Traces the development of speech, writing, printing, broadcasting, and digital media. Reviews theories of the process and effects of mass communication and how these theories apply to the work of media professionals. 		

COM CM 712: Consumer Insight & Account Planning
		Explores how to arrive at consumer insights that lead to better advertising and promotion.  The course focuses on the set of skills necessary to create breakthrough advertising, including qualitative research, observation, interviewing skills, mapping and presentation tools. Students learn to write effective, creative briefs. 4 cr. 1st sem		

COM CM 713: Law of Communication
	Study of the laws that apply to communication practitioners. Topics include the First Amendment, defamation, invasion of privacy, copyright, free press/fair trial, reporter's privilege, access to information, regulation of advertising and Internet law.		

COM CM 714: Oral Presentation
COM FT 307: Media Evolution
			

COM FT 310: Storytelling for Film & Television
           			Required of all undergraduate students in Film & Television.  An introduction to the art and craft of storytelling through the moving image.  Particular emphasis will be given to writing short scripts.  Topics covered include character development and narrative structure as it applies to shorts, features and episodic television.		

COM FT 325: Crtve Tv Produc
	This course description is currently under construction.		

COM FT 353: Production 1
	This course description is currently under construction.		

COM FT 401: Romantic Comedies and Melodramas
           			This class will view and discuss romantic comedies and domestic melodramas made in  Hollywood in the 1930's and 1940's.  these films were some of the most popular and  culturally significant of their time, involving many of the era's best  screenwriters and directors and most prominent stars.  The films set standards for  dialogue writing, rich characterization, film performance and story structure.		

COM FT 402: Production II-Digital
           			Continuation of the study of digital field production and postproduction editing. Students develop, produce, direct, shoot, record, and edit longer-form, single-camera, location productions. Emphasis on the development of storytelling in narrative and nonfiction production. 		

COM FT 404: Asian Cinema
           			Surveys important and influential films from India, Japan, mainland China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and elsewhere in East Asia from the 1950s to the present, taking in the work of such directors as Satyajit Ray, Ozu, Mizoguchi, Kurosawa, Zhang Yimou, Tsai Ming-liang, and Wong Kar-wai. The course is designed to make students familiar with foundational styles of realism and fantasy in Asian film and with ways Asian films address changes and evolution in Asian culture and society. The course should help students understand certain traditions in Asian film, and prepare them to engage critically with the ever burgeoning, new, and compelling filmmaking that comes from this part of the world. 		

COM FT 410: Seminar: Television, Culture, and Society
	Using a seminar format and selected screenings, the course constructively explores topics that have given rise to public debate about television. Issues may change from semester to semester but include violence, sexuality, commercialism, stereotyping, children's programs, and specific controversial genres, such as cartoons, action/adventure, and news. Students contribute their own discussion papers and audiovisual materials. 		

COM FT 411: Screenwriting II
           			Writing the feature-length narrative film; creation of characters, narrative outline; writing the first draft of an original screenplay. 		

COM FT 412: Screenwriting III
           			Writing an original (second) feature-length screenplay (a first draft and set of revisions required). Further study of dramatic structure: tone and rhythm.		

COM FT 456: Acting for Directors and Writers
	Develops the director's knowledge and understanding of actors --the "human equipment" of filmmaking--through direct acting experience. Students learn the language and tools of the craft through sensory exercises, improvisation, text analysis, and scene study. 		

COM FT 457: American Masterworks
	Subjects vary with the instructor. Directors discussed include D. W. Griffith, Charlie Chaplin, Buster Keaton, King Vidor, Frank Borzage, Victor Fleming, Howard Hawks, Frank Capra, Alfred Hitchcock, John Ford, John Huston, Elia Kazan, George Cukor, Orson Welles, Robert Altman, John Cassavetes, and Woody Allen. 		

COM FT 458: International Masterworks
	Subjects vary with the instructor. Directors discussed include Carl Dreyer, Satyajit Ray, Sergei Eisenstein, V. I. Pudovkin, Jean Renoir, Rene Clair, Andrzej Wajda, Jean-Luc Godard, Michelangelo Antonioni, Federico Fellini, Ingmar Bergman, Akira Kurosawa, Bernardo Bertolucci, and Luis Buñuel. 		

COM FT 465: Hi-Def Production
           			This course allows students to write, shoot, edit and complete a   short "film" entirely in the High Definition digital video format.    Students use state-of-the-art High Definition cameras and complete the post-production process in the new Ezratti HD Lab created for High Definition editing and screening.  The "films" are produced   using professional actors and are targeted for film festival entry.    A previous project from this class won the First Place prize at the 2009 Redstone Film Festival. 2nd Sem 		

COM FT 468: Production III - Film
           			Students apply to the class as director, producer, cinematographer, editor or sound designer. Directors submit scripts for consideration. The film production faculty then selects eight directors, based on the scripts and the student?s previous work. Faculty then selects the producers, cinematographers, editors and sound designers based on their work in FT 403, their ability to work as a team, and their performance in other related classes. The eight directors form production teams to make eight thesis-quality films. Maximum running time for each film is fifteen minutes.		

COM FT 491: Directed Studies
           			Individual projects; opportunity for advanced students who have completed a major portion of their degree requirements to engage in-depth tutorial study with specific faculty in an area not normally covered by regular curriculum offerings. 		

COM FT 492: Directed Studies
           			Individual projects; opportunity for advanced students who have completed a major portion of their degree requirements to engage in-depth tutorial study with specific faculty in an area not normally covered by regular curriculum offerings. 		

COM FT 493: Internship
           			Opportunity for students to gain professional experience at television and radio stations, film and video production houses, and other media institutions. Responsibilities vary. Availability depends on market needs. 		

COM FT 494: Internship
           			Opportunity for students to gain professional experience at television and radio stations, film and video production houses, and other media institutions. Responsibilities vary. Availability depends on market needs. 		

COM FT 502: Sound Design for Film and Television
COM FT 504: Post production FX Editing
		This course teaches all aspects of video post production including window dubbing, rough cuts, A/B editing, non-linear editing, digital graphics, digital sound, and the integration of all of these processes and technologies that apply to the postproduction completion of video projects. Familiarity with Macintosh computers is desirable. Experience with video timecode editing is a necessity. 		

COM FT 505: Television Production Hothouse
		This is a class that operates as a student-run, client-driven production company. Projects include PSA?s for local TV stations, fundraising videos for non-profits, an occasional music video, and documentary shorts. From time to time, there will be national competitions for student productions. No application letter is necessary. 3.0 GPA required. 4 credits only.		

COM FT 507: Television Studio Production
           			Continuation of television studio production and the development of those formats that are best suited to it.  Emphasizes the creative use of studio technology. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM FT 509: Joseph Losey
			

COM FT 511: Davidcronenberg
			

COM FT 512: Writing Episodic Drama
           			Deals with the process and techniques of writing a dramatic series for commercial network and cable television.  Students will select a current prime-time drama, develop A, B, and (possibly) C stories for an episode, and complete a Writer's Draft and polished First Draft, suitable for a Writer Portfolio.  Lectures will include the life of a working television writer, one-hour story, structure, genres, and character development.  We will view and analyze TV series from the past and present, and focus on proper drama script format, character development and voice.  		

COM FT 513: Polish Cinema
			

COM FT 514: Advanced Writing for Television
		Prereq FT 512 or FT 522. Explores the development and creation of the Television Series Pilot. Each student will pitch a concept, write a treatment and a finished pilot script for an original series, either comedy or drama. Emphasis on premise, story structure, characterization and originality. Lectures, screenings, script readings, written assignments and critiques. 4 cr. 2nd sem.		

COM FT 515: International TV
	Survey of telecommunications in various nations; analysis of the impact of cultural, economic, demographic, and political factors on both their internal and external operation. Also explored is the dynamic international telecommunications field, its impact on understanding and commerce between nations, and its meaning for the United States. 		

COM FT 517: Television Management
		The responsibilities that television and multi-platform content managers face. Research, programming, revenue, regulatory issues and ethics are all explored. Lectures, readings, case studies, and visits from professionals develop the student's understanding of a variety of managerial functions and the challenges these functions entail. 4 cr. Fall/spring		

COM FT 520: Tv Theor & Crit
           					

COM FT 522: Writing Television Situation Comedy Scripts
		Intense writing workshop learning how to write professional sitcom scripts.  Elements of character, dramatic story structure, how comedy is created, how  scenes build and progress a story, formal story outlines, dialogue, the business  of sitcom writing, pitching, arc, comedic premise are analyzed. The class  becomes a sitcom writing team for a current hit series and writes an original  class spec script to understand the process of group writing employed on most  sitcoms. Also, students write their own personal spec scripts with individual  conferences with the professor.		

COM FT 523: Understanding Marketing and Sales
	A comprehensive look into the business of television and radio sales and marketing. Respected professionals occasionally guest-lecture on this important and ever changing area.		

COM FT 524:  Golden Age of Television
	Course examines the extraordinary explosion of talent and creativity in live  television's early days. It covers writers such as Paddy Chayefsky and Rod  Serling, personalities like Edward R. Murrow, entertainers Sid Caesar, Milton  Berle, Groucho Marx, Gertrude Berg, and Lucille Ball, live political broadcasts  and blacklisting, and most significantly the great anthology series like Philco  Television Playhouse, Studio One, Playhouse 90 which presented great and  original American teleplays "Marty", "Requiem for a Heavyweight", "Patterns",  "The Comedian", "The Defenders", and many more.  Also covered are the great  early TV directors John Frankenheimer, Alfred Hitchcock, Delbert Mann and actors  who began their careers in television like Paul Newman, Ed Begley, and James  Dean.  We also look at the quiz show scandals and unique series like "The  Twilight Zone." These live television shows (seen by kinescope) are of major  importance in understanding the history of television.		

COM FT 525: Creative Producing II
		Course takes the student through the process of creating a fictional program or film. The course covers comedy and drame series and movies-of -the week from development through production and post-production. The student learns the complexities of the industry, the layers of decision makers to be dealt with, the place of agents, the nature of negotiation, and the fundamentals of hiring crews, scheduling and budgeting.  4cr, 2nd sem. 		

COM FT 526: Advanced Directing
		Students learn all aspects of directing, with particular emphasis given to script analysis and working with actors.  The director's involvement in blocking action, composing shots, managing the production process and editing are also covered.  Acting experience is helpful but not required.		

COM FT 527: Lighting
COM FT 855: Telecommunication Seminars
		Seminars by individual faculty members on topics of their choice, normally ones in which they are engaged in research or special study. Not more than two such seminars are offered in any one semester. Subjects and instructors announced before registration.		

COM FT 856: Telecommunication Seminars
		Seminars by individual faculty members on topics of their choice, normally ones in which they are engaged in research or special study. Not more than two such seminars are offered in any one semester. Subjects and instructors announced before registration.		

COM FT 951: Directed Studies
		Individual projects: opportunity for advanced graduate students who have completed a major portion of their degree requirements to engage in in-depth tutorial study with specific faculty in an area not normally covered by regular curriculum offerings.		

COM FT 952: Directed Studies
		Individual projects: opportunity for advanced graduate students who have completed a major portion of their degree requirements to engage in in-depth tutorial study with specific faculty in an area not normally covered by regular curriculum offerings.		

COM FT 953: Internship
	On-the-job experience at television stations, film and video production studios, networks, cable television operations, advertising agencies, radio stations, and corporations. Can be taken in the Boston area after the first semester of matriculation and anywhere in the country during the summer. 		

COM JO 100: Introduction to Journalism
	This course is a basic introduction to the field of journalism. It will acquaint students from COM and across the university to the journalism profession from a practitioner's perspective. 2 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 250: Fundamentals of Journalism
           			Required of journalism majors.  The goal is for students to acquire fundamental newsgathering and writing skills needed to thrive as a journalist working in any medium. The course is based in the classroom, but students are expected to learn and adhere to professional newsroom standards. The course focuses on essential practices and principles that apply to reporters, photographers, bloggers, producers and editors at newspapers, magazines, radio, television and online media. The class emphasizes news judgment, storytelling and reporting skills as well as writing clearly and quickly. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 301: Editorial Design
	This is a studio course where students learn to design for print. Students will design a newsletter and sample pages for a magazine on topics of their own choosing. Students will learn and design with QuarkXPress, Adobe Photoshop, and Adobe Illustrator. This course covers the principles of typography, composition, and visual language and encourages creative/innovative ideas. All projects will be portfolio pieces. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 303: Visual Journalism
	Required of journalism majors. An introductory course designed to provide  students with a basic working knowledge of the media required for professional  journalism, including photography, sound, video, and editing for production of  multimedia packages.  No previous experience in visual media is required.  		

COM JO 304: Online Journalism
           			Required of journalism majors. This course introduces students to reporting, writing and creating multimedia journalism for the web. Students will view and critique news web site and learn how to create stories using a variety mediums. They will learn which elements -- text, stills, audio, video, and interactive graphics -- are best for delivering a story and engaging an online news audience. Students will learn the basics of the tools needed to create multimedia journalism packages and practice using them to report news online. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 305: Basic Photography for non majors
	Students learn the fundamentals of 35mm digital photography from the basics of  image capture to processing finished photographs.  No previous experience in  photography is required.  4 cr., either sem.  		

COM JO 309: Feature Writing
           			Writing feature articles for newspapers. Covers markets open to free-lance writers, published articles, newspaper feature sections, and Sunday supplements. 		

COM JO 310: Beat Reporting
           			Students learn to cover a city neighborhood or a nearby community bear. Students will branch out across the city and suburbs to cover courts, crime, education, local and state politics, and other essentials of community reporting. Students will be encouraged to develop their own sources and story ideas with the goal of professional publication in the Boston University News Service. Students produce stories, photos, audio and video for the Web. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 312: Photojournalism I
           			An introductory course for students interested in pursuing a career in photojournalism and visual reporting.  Students photograph assignments to the standards of professional news outlets and advance their skills in digital photography for use on websites and in publications.  4 cr., either sem.  		

COM JO 351: Reporting with Audio and Video
           			Introductory writing and reporting for television, the Internet and radio using digital video cameras, audio recorders, editing suites as well as the computer editing and the news writing software used in professional television and radio newsrooms. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 357: History and Principles of Journalism
	This course surveys the evolution of the American news media, beginning with newspapers in 1704 and continuing through the coming of the Internet and the Digital Revolution now sweeping through journalism. Students examine press freedom, censorship, changing definitions of news, and changes in the business model underlying journalism. Based on that history, we also examine the enduring values and principles of journalism in the U.S. and consider emerging business models. 4 cr, either sem.   		

COM JO 403: Magazine Writing and Editing
           			Students learn to research, write, and edit lengthy articles of national magazine quality. 		

COM JO 408: Magazine Workshop
           			This final magazine writing course is designed to create a published magazine as a writing portfolio for students. This is a studio course, taught by two professors, which covers writing and design in a setting that captures the dynamics of professional practice. Students within each group, assume professional positions and conceptualize, write, edit, design, and publish magazines. Magazines are designed and published using QuarkXPress and Adobe Photoshop. Design concepts and techniques, along with computer programs used in this course, are taught with step by step instructions.  4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 410: Advanced Photography for Nonmajors
		A course for students outside of the photojournalism major who are interested in acquiring and advancing the skills required of present day journalists, including digital photography and its use in multimedia productions.  4 cr., 1st sem. 		

COM JO 411: Professional Journalism Internship
COM JO 412: Professional Journalism Internship
		Valuable on-the-job practice of journalism skills. Provides student with portfolio of professional work. The student works 150 hours per semester or summer at the internship. Assistance in placement; instructor must approve project. Comprehensive paper, employer evaluation, and portfolio required at end of semester. 		

COM JO 413: Broadcast Journalism Internship
           			On-the-job observation and training at a news website, television, radio station  or network. Employer and student evaluations required at end of semester.		

COM JO 431: Video Enterprise Reporting
           			Broadcast journalism majors only.  Students will produce in depth video reports  similar to what is seen on network TV news magazine programs, news Web sites or  local television series. 4 cr., 2nd semester. 		

COM JO 435: Radio Newsroom Online
           			Students will produce a half hour LIVE news show on the student radio station, WTBU, during each class. Students will report, write, produce and engineer all the news sports and commentary in the program on deadline. Students from London, Washington and State House programs will file stories for the news show. Students will be expected to file frequently and to critique programs from NPR, BBC, WBZ and other audio news outlets. The best productions will be pitched to WBUR and State House clients for their websites. 4 cr. 1st sem.		

COM JO 437: Special Studies
	Current offerings: Basic Research Methods, offered in the fall, covers on-line reportorial and research techniques. Sampling the Media, offered only in the spring, covers all aspects of the media. 		

COM JO 451: Television Newsroom
           			Students produce a half hour newscast, broadcast on cable TV and the Internet, with live coverage and video reports on local, national and international news as well as sports highlights and weather. Students rotate positions weekly, using television studios and the control booth, collaborating to broadcast a fresh, informative and accurate newscast while facing the daily deadlines of a working newsroom.   4 cr, 1st sem.  		

COM JO 490: Directed Studies
		Students work with faculty on individual research, professional training, or special studies. 		

COM JO 491: Directed Studies: Broadcast Journalism
		Students work with faculty on individual research, professional training, or special studies. 		

COM JO 500: Media Criticism
	How well have the media covered the war in Iraq? Do the media have political biases? What effect has Fox News had on the mainstream media? In the face of growing competition from the Internet, what is the future of traditional journalism? Do news-oriented personalities such as Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert elevate or debase the political process? This timely course takes a critical look at the strengths, weaknesses and limitations of the media, including current media controversies. 4 cr. either sem. 		

COM JO 501: Introduction to Business and Economic Reporting
		Comprehensive training in writing business and economics stories, using articles in The Wall Street Journal and other publications as examples.  Emphasis on developing clear, simple language to describe complex issues.  Articles may be published in teh Worcester Telegram and Gazette.  No previous economics or business experience is required.  4cr. either sem 		

COM JO 502: Journalism Special Topics
		Every year several courses have been created under this category to examine current journalism issues in seminar format.  See the department for specifics.		

COM JO 503: Journalism Research
	A rigorous grounding in research and investigative methods from interviews and records searching to computer-assisted reporting and use of the Freedom of Information Act.  		

COM JO 504: Arts Criticism
	This course explores the nature of arts and entertainment criticism, and helps students develop their critical writing skills. Topics include: structuring a review; critical biases; profiling celebrities from a critical perspective; cultural criticism - how to write about entertainment or the arts to make broader points about our culture; and, style - how to get it. Assignments include TV, film and theater reviews, screenings and a trip to a Boston theater. Guest speakers feature some of Boston's most prominent critics. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 506: Columns and Editorials
		This is a course in writing with a point of view.  It includes instruction in op-ed columns as well as personal columns, which are short personal essays.		

COM JO 508: Electronic Copy Editing
           			This course is designed to train copy editors for newspapers, magazines, and the Internet. The primary focus is on newspapers, but other applications are also considered. Class sessions will focus on writing and editing/copying editing skills, and layout and design skills using Quark Xpress. 4 cr, both sem.		

COM JO 511: Covering Government and Politics
	This class provides instruction in the covering the legislative process, analyzing data, interviewing, and developing beats. Students will learn writing techniques to help readers understand significance issues. Guest lectures, readings and exercises explore the dynamics of political and public affairs reporting. Taken in tandem with JO546 (Filing for Newspapers) as part of the Boston Statehouse Program and offered separately to graduate and undergraduate broadcast majors in coordination with the broadcast department. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 512: Editorial Design
	This is a studio course where students learn to design for print. Students will design a newsletter and sample pages for a magazine on topics of their own choosing. Students will learn and design with QuarkXPress, Adobe Photoshop, and Adobe Illustrator.   This course covers the principles of typography, composition, and visual language and encourages creative/innovative ideas. All projects will be portfolio pieces.		

COM JO 513: Advanced Photojournalism
COM FT 704: Genre for Screenwriters
	This class will touch upon the basics of genre theory, identify genre conventions  using the courses "study" films.  The films will be discussed in terms of theme,  structure, characters, setting, subject matter, visual motifs or recurring icons,  and tone/mood.  		

COM FT 705: Comedies and Melodramas for Graduate Students
	This class will view and discuss romantic comedies and domestic melodramas made in  Hollywood in the 1930's and 1940's.		

COM FT 706: Acting for Directors and Writers
	For first-year graduates. Develops the director's knowledge and understanding of actors, the "human equipment" of filmmaking, through direct acting experience. Students learn the language and tools of the craft through sensory exercises, improvisation, text analysis, and scene study. 		

COM FT 707: Introduction to Video Production
	An introduction to the techniques of producing and directing video projects, including videography, lighting, editing, sound, and special effects. Emphasis is on execution and design of both "live" on tape and postproduced works using both field and studio equipment. 		

COM FT 711: Screenwriting I
	Exclusively for screenwriting graduate students, an introduction to principles  of drama, screenplay structure characterization, screenplay description and  dialogue through lecture and discussion of produced screenplays.  Students begin  with exercises and then write outlines/treatments in preparation for completing  a first act (approximately 30 pages) and full treatment of an original feature  screenplay. Student work will be discussed in workshop format.		

COM FT 712: Television, Culture, and Society
	Issues of content, representation, regulation, effects, and ethics in television. Specific areas include children's programming, representation of women and ethnic groups, violence, educational, and prosocial aspects. Also covers methods of social inquiry, including students' own practical assignments. 		

COM FT 713: Screenwriting II
		Students compose a feature-length film and a set of revisions based upon the film outline created in COM FT 711. Further examples of dramatic structure are analyzed from the library of world cinema.		

COM FT 716: Video Production II
		Emphasizes longer-form television programs and stresses the role of the producer/director. Course includes both documentary and dramatic productions using both field and studio equipment and techniques.		

COM FT 721: International Masterworks
	A selective survey of important films from outside the United States from the earlier twentieth century to the present.  Films will be selected to represent important stylistic movements in film history, such as Expressionism and Surrealism, and to represent diverse possibilities for what the medium of the feature theatrical film can accomplish.  The course will include work of such directors as Eisenstein, Murnau, Lang, Renoir, Rossellini, Mizoguchi, Bergman, Antonioni, Buñuel, Ray, Godard, Sembène, Akerman, and Kiarostami.  The course will concentrate on analysis of individual films and will develop skills for shot-by-shot reading and critical writing. 		

COM FT 722: American Masterworks
	Subjects vary with instructor. Directors include: D.W.Griffith, Charlie Chaplin, Buster Keaton, King Vidor, Frank Borzage, Victor Fleming, Howard Hawks, Frank Capra, Alfred Hitchcock, John Ford, John Huston, Elia Kazan, George Cukor, Orson Welles, Robert Altman, John Cassavetes, and Woody Allen. 		

COM FT 723: Amrcan Indepndt
			

COM FT 724: Screenwriting 3
			

COM FT 727: Creative Producing I
	An introductory course that takes the student through the various stages of production beginning with a concept and ending with a full-fledged, camera-ready proposal. Students are introduced to issues of finance, scheduling, and organization; they learn what a producer must do to keep budget and concept on track. 		

COM FT 728: Creating New Ideas With Existing Content
	 Introduces students to the tools and techniques used to produce multi-platform content. Students learn multimedia concepts, elements,  and production to extend the brands of properties and to attract new audiences. Training in the use of computer-based hardware and software for multimedia creation. 4 cr. Fall/spring		

COM FT 729: Script Analysis
	TK		

COM FT 730: Screen Adaptation I
		More than half of Oscar nominated films are literary adaptations.  This course analyses the current commercial and artistic reasons behind the surge in adaptations, touches upon adaptation theory, and studies novels and short stories that have been adapted for film.  Student's present papers on film adaptations and adapt a short story.		

COM FT 731: Screen Writing IV
		In this fourth of the MFA screenwriting students' screenwriting workshop courses, students write a feature screenplay, write coverage on each other's work, and study films that shed light on their projects.  		

COM FT 801: Avid Film Composer
           			fgsmdfjhsa fgjhsdg fkhshgdf		

COM FT 808: Line Producing
		Required of all Film Production graduate students, this course covers all aspects of what is sometimes called "physical production--" the logistics of making a media project. Topics covered include contracts, rights, negotiation strategies, working with and without unions, crew responsibilities, scheduling and budgeting. Students apply the lessons covered to actual projects that they take through the first phases of pre-production.		

COM FT 825: Thesis Project
	Creation of an original work in any one of four areas: producing; scriptwriting; directing/production; or a research paper. One-on-one advisor supervision throughout the entire process.		

COM FT 536: Film Theory and Criticism
	An introduction to classical and contemporary film and media theory.  Topics include montage theory, realism, structuralism, post-structuralism, semiotics, psychoanalysis, phenomenology, and cultural studies.  The course includes screenings of films that have contributed to critical debate and those that challenge theoretical presuppositions.		

COM FT 537: Third Wrld Cnma
			

COM FT 540: Screenplay as Dramatic Literature
	Screenplays may be read as literature as well as be produced as films. In this course the literary and dramatic art of the screenplay is analyzed, and the screenplay as a form is perceived to be nothing less than a little brother to stage play.		

COM FT 543: Television Situational Comedy
           			The American television situation comedy has been an enormously popular and  powerful art form.  This course traces the growth of the sitcom genre from the  beginnings in the early 1950's up to the present time and analyzes how American  life has been influenced by it.  We look at how sitcoms affected popular  perception of working class, race, ethnicity, idealized family life and then the  growth of different family structures, fantasy and war.  We study how sitcoms  initially portrayed women and then the emerging changes in response to the  feminist movement.  We analyze Norman Lear's series which talked about the real  things Americans were saying but in the privacy of their homes and the  revolution that his series created.  Finally we examine anti-family satire and  take a close look at contemporary single life, both straight and gay.		

COM FT 544: Documentary Production
		This course is designed to develop skills necessary for producing long-form  documentaries. There is an emphasis on exploring new, more engaging forms of  storytelling and a broad range of stylistic approaches.  It covers the entire  process: finding a topic, developing a story structure, conceiving a style,  shooting, editing, and post-production.  Students develop their own ideas and  form small groups to produce them. 		

COM FT 545: Television and Childhood
	Examines the important role played by television in child development and culture, with special reference to the provision and content of programming for children of different ages, from preschool to adolescence. 		

COM FT 546: New German Cine
			

COM FT 547: HISTAVANTGARDE1
			

COM FT 548: Antionionibergm
			

COM FT 549: The Profane
	Explores a wide variety of topics concerning censorship, feminist theory, feminism, psychoanalytical theories, pornography, voyeurism, repression, homosexuality, rape, body image, and national identities as exemplified through a large selection of films considered "Profane"/scandalous/ "X-rated", touching upon uncanny regions in which one is "never at home". Further discussion will include an examination of the cultural and historical factors that  serve as background for the themes explored and presented in the selected films.		

COM FT 550: Scandinavian Cinema
	This course traces the major discourses that have developed around the Dogme'95 movement. The major focus of this class is to study the work, vision, influences and contribution of Lars Von Trier to the New Scandinavian Cinema and its assorted practitioners. We will attempt to perceive and critique Von Trier's vision as a site for understanding cultural dynamics of European and American Societies. The course is organized chronologically to structure and present the development of both Trier's work and evolvement of the Dogme 95' movement. Some of the readings are assigned around those concerns.  		

COM FT 551: Designing the Short Film
	 This course explores the aesthetic and technical parameters of the short film format, with the goal of celebrating Short Film, as a genre in and of itself. 4cr. either sem.		

COM FT 552: Special Topics
	See the Department of Film and Televison for specifics. 		

COM FT 553: Special Topics
		Topics and instructors vary each semester.  Details are available from the Department of Film and Television.  Recent offerings have included Writing Episodic Drama.		

COM FT 554: Special Topics
	Details are available from the department of Film and Television. Topics and  instructor vary each semester. Recent topics have included the films of John  Cassavetes, Mike Leigh, and Rainer Fassbinder; the Blacklist; Low Brow Comedy.		

COM FT 555: The Narrative Documentary Practicum
	This practicum, designed for advanced film and television production students, focuses on the highly specialized filmmaking techniques used for the narrative documentary; that is, character-driven films about real people. The course also explores this tradition's rich legacy: from the Russians of the 1920s, through the CV movement of the 1960s, and on to the present day host of new films spawned by digital filmmaking technology.   		

COM FT 560: The Documentary
	Surveys the history of the documentary and the changes brought about by the advent of television. Examines the outlook for the documentary idea in national and international markets. Periodic highlighting of special areas such as the portrayal of war, historical events, drama-documentary, and propaganda. Students develop critical and professional skills. Lectures, screenings, discussions. 		

COM FT 561: Television Drama
	Surveys the history of television drama from its "live" beginnings in the 1950s to contemporary taped and filmed series, mini-series, and specials. The critical evaluation of such forms as sitcoms, soap operas, and regularly scheduled dramatic series from the perspective of the producer, writer, and director. Lectures, screenings, writing reviews, and discussions. 		

COM FT 563: French New Wave
	A comprehensive survey of the most important directors and films of this vital movement, which arguably changed the course of world cinema. Directors include Godard, Charbol, Rohmer, Truffaut, Resnais, and Varda.  In addition to class screenings, some outside viewing may be required.		

COM FT 565: Motion Picture Editing
		This is an advanced editing class in which students edit challenging and complex projects using Avid software. Students edit scenes from features and episodic television shows that were shot using single camera techniques, as well as multi-camera material, such as sitcoms and music concerts. Students learn rhythm and pacing, when and where to make a cut, how to increase the emotional content of a scene, ways to propel the story forward, and the proper use of sound, effects, titles and music. Students must have previously taken a production class that used Avid software.		

COM JO 807: Advanced Journalism Research
	A rigorous grounding in research and investigative methods from interviews and records searching to computer-assisted reporting and use of the Freedom of Information Act.		

COM JO 881: Science video Production
	The moving image carries enormous power; whether shown in theaters, on  television, on the internet or on our smart phones, video has the ability to  change the world, as has been demonstrated time and again. this course is  designed to examine the power of non-fiction video through the deconstruction of  various films and videos, and serve as an introduction to video production  through a series of production exercises culminating in a complete short film as  a final project.  While this course focuses on science, it will be useful for  anyone interested in learning more about non-fiction video production.		

COM JO 954: Directed Study: Broadcast Journalism
		Faculty and students work together in a tutorial situation to produce a project of  mutual interest.		

COM JO 955: Directed Study: General & Online Journalism
		Faculty and students work together in a tutorial situation to produce a project of  mutual interest.		

COM JO 718: Magazine Workshop
		This final magazine writing course is designed to create a published magazine as a writing portfolio for students. This is a studio course, taught by two professors, which covers writing and design in a setting that captures the dynamics of professional practice. Students within each group, assume professional positions and conceptualize, write, edit, design, and publish magazines. Magazines are designed and published using QuarkXPress and Adobe Photoshop. Design concepts and techniques, along with computer programs used in this course, are taught with step by step instructions. 4 cr 2nd sem		

COM JO 719: Feature Writing
		Writing feature articles for newspapers, magazines and other media. Covers markets open to free-lance writers, published articles, newspaper feature sections, and Sunday supplements. 		

COM JO 721: Journalism Principles and Techniques
	Required. Students acquire techniques of newswriting and reporting by covering a full range of news stories in a laboratory situation. Stress on deadline pressure, writing, and reporting. Includes weekly seminar on journalism principles as illustrated by current events and controversies. 		

COM JO 722: Advanced Journalism Seminar
		Required. Newswriting and reporting in Boston and surrounding communities. Students cover working beats.		

COM JO 723: Science Newswriting I
	Students develop experience in writing about science, technology, and medicine for the consumer press. At instructor's option, students may write scripts for broadcast and/or articles for publication in scientific, professional, or business magazines and periodicals. 		

COM JO 724: Science in the Crosshairs
	This course guides students toward writing short, pithy features and reports on  issues of scientific controversy, introducing students to the technical basics  of short form narrative, while also taking a hard look at a number of scientific  issues.  Also a refresher unit on statistics and one on the politics of  scientific journals.  The focus will be on learning to think, report, research  and write as a journalist while at the same time building a sound understanding  of some of the most critical issues of our day.  Students will be expected to  produce four pieces of writing- ranging from brief expository pieces to a fully  formed profile.		

COM JO 727: Special Studies
			

COM JO 732: Conflict and Commentary in Science Reporting
	A course in writing about science policy issues, including in-depth coverage of  controversial issues and writing scientific-related essay, such as those that  appear in Slate and Salon.  classroom discussions will involve complex areas of  science reporting, including scientific fraud and business issues related to  science.		

COM JO 733: Enterprise Reporting
	Students will produce in depth video reports similar to what is seen on network  TV news magazine programs, news web sites or local television series.  Review of  job trends in the industry and how to produce a resume/reel website.		

COM JO 734: Broadcast Journalism I: Television News Production
	Introduction to basic techniques of video news, with emphasis on function of the  writer. Includes on-air techniques, editing, and feature and documentary planning  and production. 		

COM JO 735: Professional Project
	Required of all graduate broadcast concentrators.  Production of a broadcast- ready portfolio project demonstrating strong writing, research and multimedia  skills.  Students choose a news topic to report, whether in the form of a video  or radio documentary, a  multimedia website, a series of video or radio reports  or a multimedia app.  Individual faculty members supervise this capstone project  during the course of the semester.		

COM JO 736: TV News Magazine
		Students produce, anchor, and report a single-topic news magazine program,  broadcast on deadline.  Students advance their anchoring skills by preparing a  half-hour program featuring video and live reports.		

COM JO 737: Journalism Internship
	Required broadcast, print, magazine, online or photo internship under supervision  of faculty.		

COM JO 738: Business & Economics Internship
	Required internship under supervision of faculty.		

COM JO 754: Science Journalism Internship
	To be taken during the summer between second and third semesters of the program  and then registered during the third semester.		

COM JO 807: Advanced Journalism Research
	A rigorous grounding in research and investigative methods from interviews and records searching to computer-assisted reporting and use of the Freedom of Information Act.		

COM JO 881: Science video Production
	The moving image carries enormous power; whether shown in theaters, on  television, on the internet or on our smart phones, video has the ability to  change the world, as has been demonstrated time and again. this course is  designed to examine the power of non-fiction video through the deconstruction of  various films and videos, and serve as an introduction to video production  through a series of production exercises culminating in a complete short film as  a final project.  While this course focuses on science, it will be useful for  anyone interested in learning more about non-fiction video production.		

COM JO 954: Directed Study: Broadcast Journalism
		Faculty and students work together in a tutorial situation to produce a project of  mutual interest.		

COM JO 955: Directed Study: General & Online Journalism
		Faculty and students work together in a tutorial situation to produce a project of  mutual interest.		

COM FT 567: Film Styles
	"Style" is a term that crops up routinely in discussions of film, but does it really mean anything? Through the careful study of a broad variety of films, we will compile a catalog of stylistic components which critic and filmmaker alike can use to think more clearly about this slippery concept. How does one create a style? How does style influence narrative? What tools does a director use to create a distinctive style? Using feature films and film clips, this course will answer these and other questions about film style.		

COM FT 569: Holocaust on Film
	Holocaust on Film examines the aesthetics of filmic texts which place the experience of the Holocaust at the center of their investigation.		

COM FT 573: BUTV
	Provides students with the opportunity to develop and product television programs for student television station BUTV10, and for student -operated production group, Growling Dog Productions.		

COM FT 574: BUTV
	Provides students with the opportunity to develop and produce television programs for closed-circuit and, possibly, cable-access distribution, and to produce low-budget videos for nonprofit organizations. 		

COM FT 575: Renoir&Beunel
			

COM FT 576: Globalnewwaves
			

COM FT 577: Godard
			

COM FT 578: 3MASTERDIRECTRS
			

COM FT 579: Eurodirectors
			

COM FT 580: Subversvecine
			

COM FT 581: Thrdwrlddirctrs
			

COM FT 583: Filmtraumaloss
			

COM FT 593: Introduction to Cinematography
		Based on a fundamental knowledge of technical and creative procedures of film production, this course pays deeper attention to important elements of cinematography such as composition, raw stock, sensitometry, lighting, movement, colors, and space. Emphasis is on a conscious usage of pictorial elements in the picture-building process. 		

COM FT 701: Media in Evolution
	A course that examines the business of entertainment media industries. History, structure, business models, regulatory and social issues will be discussed.   An assessment of the emergence of new media businesses, and how technologies, that offer many new content distribution options, are changing the definition of traditional media. 4 cr. Fall		

COM FT 702: Script To Film
	Exclusive to Graduate Screenwriting students (required in 1st year.  An  introduction to the relationship between the written script and the image on  screen.  Through in-depth analysis, we will study screenplays, films and the  mind of the screenwriter in order to decipher the process of developing story  from character, plot and theme.  Students will be required to write expository  papers and present their own analysis of a chosen film.		

COM FT 703: Media Business Entrepreneurship
	This course will provide students with the practical knowledge and skills needed to heed the call of entrepreneurship. Classes will include guest speakers from various business sectors including venture capital professionals, angel investors, accountants, attorneys, marketing experts who are skilled in launch phases of PR, as well as media entrepreneurs who succeeded against all odds. Students will also participate in the development of a core business idea, from concept through the creation of a sound business plan as a final project/presentation. 4 cr. Fall		

COM FT 704: Genre for Screenwriters
	This class will touch upon the basics of genre theory, identify genre conventions  using the courses "study" films.  The films will be discussed in terms of theme,  structure, characters, setting, subject matter, visual motifs or recurring icons,  and tone/mood.  		

COM FT 705: Comedies and Melodramas for Graduate Students
	This class will view and discuss romantic comedies and domestic melodramas made in  Hollywood in the 1930's and 1940's.		

COM FT 706: Acting for Directors and Writers
	For first-year graduates. Develops the director's knowledge and understanding of actors, the "human equipment" of filmmaking, through direct acting experience. Students learn the language and tools of the craft through sensory exercises, improvisation, text analysis, and scene study. 		

COM FT 707: Introduction to Video Production
	An introduction to the techniques of producing and directing video projects, including videography, lighting, editing, sound, and special effects. Emphasis is on execution and design of both "live" on tape and postproduced works using both field and studio equipment. 		

COM CM 715: Public Relations in Nonprofit Settings
		Principles and practices of public relations in social, health, educational, and public service institutions. Analysis of the structure, publics, public relations, communication, and marketing programs unique to nonprofit agencies. Attention to recruitment and management of volunteers, fund-raising, budgeting, and intra- and inter-agency relationships. 		

COM CM 716: New & Traditional Media Strategies
		Examines media planning, buying and sales as performed by advertising agencies, clients and the media.  Research sources providing data on media audiences and product usuage are evaluated.  Examines contemporary trends in communication media and their effects on advertisers.  4 cr, either sem.		

COM CM 717: Fundamentals of Creative Development
	Focus is on the strategic creative process in advertising including concept development, copywriting, visualization, and design. Assignments require conceiving solutions to client marketing challenges across a range of media. Teaches foundations for development of effective advertising: problem definition, strategic development, and conceptual idea generation through tangible executions. 4 cr. 1st semester		

COM CM 721: Advertising Management
		Administration of complete advertising program. Case study method used to explore the marketing mix, budgeting, media strategy, planning, coordinating advertising with promotion, working with client or agency, and the social responsibility of advertisers. 		

COM CM 722: Communication Research
	Introduction to the methodology of communication research. Includes both qualitative and quantitative approaches. Attention to the nature of scientific logic, computer literature searches, research design, questionnaire construction, sampling, measurement techniques, and data analysis. Explores the use of focus groups, experiments, surveys, and content analysis. 		

COM CM 723: Advanced Communication Research
		Provides an in-depth look at data analysis using the SPSS (the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences). Students get hands-on experience by carrying out actual analyses using real data sets. Techniques covered include descriptive statistics, correlation and regression, t-tests, ANOVA, and factor analysis. 		

COM CM 724: Sampling Design and Measurement Techniques
		Discusses various issues related to sampling, such as design, sample size, methods of selection, sampling error, and sampling sources for applied research projects. Also teaches about the various types of questionnaires and measurement procedures commonly used in communication research, including those used for assessing such factors as attitudes, beliefs, media use, and consumer behavior. 		

COM CM 726: Strategic Brand Solutions
		Explores the impact of current advertising/marketing issues from business, economic, political, social, legal, and ethical perspectives. Modified case method, with lectures from experts on selected issues. 		

COM CM 728: International Public Relations
	Structure and function of public relations and communication organizations in international settings. Consideration of levels of development, culture, and geopolitical variables affecting public relations and communication programs. Cases and examples drawn from the Middle East, Africa, the Pacific Rim, South America, the European Economic Community, and the former Soviet Union. 		

COM CM 729: Public Opinion and Public Policy
	Examines the components, dynamics, and mutual effects of the U.S. decision-making process and public opinion. Students apply this knowledge to case studies of persuasion campaigns and provide a written policy paper and oral reports. Examines key principles of comparative government, political science, organizational communication, decision making, and group dynamics as bases for measuring and comparing the relationships between public opinion and public policy in the United States and elsewhere. 		

COM CM 730: Marketing Communications
	Addresses basic marketing and promotion principles used to increase awareness of and change in attitudes and buyer behavior about products, services, and organizations. Students learn to evaluate appropriate promotional mixes, examine the role of communications, and develop marketing communications strategies through the use of case studies and classroom discussion. 		

COM CM 732: Ad Lab
		This course description is currently under construction.		

COM CM 734: Governmental Public Affairs
		Governmental public relations in this century; primary attention to current programs of public relations at national, state, and local levels. Public contact problems, including personnel recruitment, agency purpose, agency publics, and executive direction. Research participation in the field. 		

COM CM 742: Media Relations
		Students learn publicity techniques used in media of mass communication, including daily and weekly newspapers, magazines, radio, television, and film. Practitioners invited to class to present publicity problems. Case study method and workshop sessions with informal discussion. 		

COM CM 743: New Media & Public Relations
		Explores the effects of new media on the fundamental theories, models, and practices of public relations.  Studies how websites, blogs, citizen journalism, social media, direct-to-consumer communication, podcasting, viral marketing, and other technology-enabled changes are affecting interpersonal, small group, and mass media relationships.  Also covers and uses the interactive tools that are re-defining the practice of public relations.  The course combines lecture, discussion, guest speakers, case study, and research to help students uncover and appreciate the power and potential of interactive media. 4 cr, both semesters.  (taught with COM CM443)		

COM CM 750: Advanced Writing for Media Professionals
		Building on the writing skills and formats presented in CM707, students work individually and in-depth on essay writing, analyses/critiques (drawing on The Best American Essays series), online feature editing strategies, blogs, direct mail package, microsite, and a presidential speech.  Various writing workshops complete the course requirements.  4 cr, 2nd sem.   		

COM CM 751: Advanced Art Direction
		This course builds upon the conceptual work and executional skills acquired in the prerequisite classes. Emphasis is placed on visual thinking and decision-making as it applies to advertising art direction. Assignments are focused on the strategic development of individual brand aesthetics translated across a range of media, as well as package design and collateral. 4 cr. 1st semester		

COM CM 752: Advanced Copywriting
		This course builds on the concept development and copywriting foundations learned in prerequisite courses. Assignments will require the creation of copy for a range of audience segments and media channels. Students will learn to shape copy for video, digital, print, and social media. 4 cr. 1st semester		

COM CM 753: Portfolio Development I
		Course is for graduate students who intend to work in the creative area of the advertising industry. Focus is on the principles needed to understand, conceptualize, and create an entry-level portfolio of work (print, video, digital, mobile, experiential). A workshop-like environment, mirroring an advertising agency, is augmented with lectures and case studies. 4 cr. 2nd semester		

COM JO 100: Introduction to Journalism
	This course is a basic introduction to the field of journalism. It will acquaint students from COM and across the university to the journalism profession from a practitioner's perspective. 2 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 250: Fundamentals of Journalism
           			Required of journalism majors.  The goal is for students to acquire fundamental newsgathering and writing skills needed to thrive as a journalist working in any medium. The course is based in the classroom, but students are expected to learn and adhere to professional newsroom standards. The course focuses on essential practices and principles that apply to reporters, photographers, bloggers, producers and editors at newspapers, magazines, radio, television and online media. The class emphasizes news judgment, storytelling and reporting skills as well as writing clearly and quickly. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 301: Editorial Design
	This is a studio course where students learn to design for print. Students will design a newsletter and sample pages for a magazine on topics of their own choosing. Students will learn and design with QuarkXPress, Adobe Photoshop, and Adobe Illustrator. This course covers the principles of typography, composition, and visual language and encourages creative/innovative ideas. All projects will be portfolio pieces. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 303: Visual Journalism
	Required of journalism majors. An introductory course designed to provide  students with a basic working knowledge of the media required for professional  journalism, including photography, sound, video, and editing for production of  multimedia packages.  No previous experience in visual media is required.  		

COM JO 304: Online Journalism
           			Required of journalism majors. This course introduces students to reporting, writing and creating multimedia journalism for the web. Students will view and critique news web site and learn how to create stories using a variety mediums. They will learn which elements -- text, stills, audio, video, and interactive graphics -- are best for delivering a story and engaging an online news audience. Students will learn the basics of the tools needed to create multimedia journalism packages and practice using them to report news online. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 305: Basic Photography for non majors
	Students learn the fundamentals of 35mm digital photography from the basics of  image capture to processing finished photographs.  No previous experience in  photography is required.  4 cr., either sem.  		

COM JO 309: Feature Writing
           			Writing feature articles for newspapers. Covers markets open to free-lance writers, published articles, newspaper feature sections, and Sunday supplements. 		

COM JO 310: Beat Reporting
           			Students learn to cover a city neighborhood or a nearby community bear. Students will branch out across the city and suburbs to cover courts, crime, education, local and state politics, and other essentials of community reporting. Students will be encouraged to develop their own sources and story ideas with the goal of professional publication in the Boston University News Service. Students produce stories, photos, audio and video for the Web. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 312: Photojournalism I
           			An introductory course for students interested in pursuing a career in photojournalism and visual reporting.  Students photograph assignments to the standards of professional news outlets and advance their skills in digital photography for use on websites and in publications.  4 cr., either sem.  		

COM JO 351: Reporting with Audio and Video
           			Introductory writing and reporting for television, the Internet and radio using digital video cameras, audio recorders, editing suites as well as the computer editing and the news writing software used in professional television and radio newsrooms. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 357: History and Principles of Journalism
	This course surveys the evolution of the American news media, beginning with newspapers in 1704 and continuing through the coming of the Internet and the Digital Revolution now sweeping through journalism. Students examine press freedom, censorship, changing definitions of news, and changes in the business model underlying journalism. Based on that history, we also examine the enduring values and principles of journalism in the U.S. and consider emerging business models. 4 cr, either sem.   		

COM JO 403: Magazine Writing and Editing
           			Students learn to research, write, and edit lengthy articles of national magazine quality. 		

COM JO 408: Magazine Workshop
           			This final magazine writing course is designed to create a published magazine as a writing portfolio for students. This is a studio course, taught by two professors, which covers writing and design in a setting that captures the dynamics of professional practice. Students within each group, assume professional positions and conceptualize, write, edit, design, and publish magazines. Magazines are designed and published using QuarkXPress and Adobe Photoshop. Design concepts and techniques, along with computer programs used in this course, are taught with step by step instructions.  4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 410: Advanced Photography for Nonmajors
		A course for students outside of the photojournalism major who are interested in acquiring and advancing the skills required of present day journalists, including digital photography and its use in multimedia productions.  4 cr., 1st sem. 		

COM JO 411: Professional Journalism Internship
           			Valuable on-the-job practice of journalism skills. Provides student with portfolio of professional work. The student works 150 hours per semester or summer at the internship. Assistance in placement; instructor must approve project. Comprehensive paper, employer evaluation, and portfolio required at end of semester. 		

COM JO 412: Professional Journalism Internship
		Valuable on-the-job practice of journalism skills. Provides student with portfolio of professional work. The student works 150 hours per semester or summer at the internship. Assistance in placement; instructor must approve project. Comprehensive paper, employer evaluation, and portfolio required at end of semester. 		

COM JO 413: Broadcast Journalism Internship
           			On-the-job observation and training at a news website, television, radio station  or network. Employer and student evaluations required at end of semester.		

COM JO 431: Video Enterprise Reporting
           			Broadcast journalism majors only.  Students will produce in depth video reports  similar to what is seen on network TV news magazine programs, news Web sites or  local television series. 4 cr., 2nd semester. 		

COM JO 435: Radio Newsroom Online
COM JO 703: Magazine Writing
	This is a course in long-form magazine journalism such as appears in the New Yorker, Harpers, Rolling Stone, Outside, and the New York Times Magazine, among other publications. The class reads and analyzes superb examples of the genre and reports, researches and writes long-from pieces of its own. Among the issues addressed in depth are: intensive, in-depth reporting and research; the writing process; the use of fine language and the development of a personal voice; the importance of a point of view; structuring long pieces; digging deeply into subjects in order to truly enlighten readers. Also discussed is a reporting and writing strategy rooted in the methods of anthropology and ethnography.  Other issues: the importance of complexity, the organic development of characters, the nature of narrative, the depiction of otherness and difference; the use of empathy; ?mindful? journalism; and the development of relationships with sources through deep preparation, emotional connectedness, and conversation (instead of Q & A).		

COM JO 704: Online Journalism for Graduate Students
	Required of journalism majors. This course introduces students to reporting,     writing and creating multi-platform journalism. Students will gain practical  experience producing and editing news and features for delivery via digital  platforms.  This class will critique and analyze news sites and examine how  multiple elements such as text, photo's audio, video, social media and  interactive graphics are currently used in multimedia reporting. 4 cr, either  sem.		

COM JO 705: Science Unbound-Writing at the Edges of Science and Society
	A course in which students read, think and write about several areas where   science and society interact, how that interaction has played out in the media   and how that has affected the public's perceptions and policy decisions.  We'll   examine three thematic areas in which science has has a particularly prickly   relationship with the media, perhaps because they touch on primal emotions:(1)   Uncertainly and Doubt, (2) Hope and Fear, and, (3) Truth and justice.  Students   will also complete a series of short to medium length magazine style pieces  suitable for front of the book sections of popular publications- such as Wired,  Discover, Technology and New Scientist.		

COM JO 707: Writing and Reporting for Broadcast News
	this introductory course is about reporting, writing and producing the news for  broadcast.  Students learn the fundamentals of news-gathering.  They report,  shoot, write, edit and produce news packages.  Topics range from breaking news  stories to political coverage and features.  Strong stories air on BUTV's  newscast and are posted on BUNS- the BU News Service website.  The course begins  with the basics: story generation, fact gathering, videography, writing,editing  and presentation.		

COM JO 712: Online Radio Newsroom
	Students produce a half-hour LIVE news show on the student radio station, WTBU, during each class. Students report, write, produce and engineer all the news, sports and commentary in the program on deadline. Students from London and State House programs file stories for the news show. Students are expected to file frequently and to critique programs from NPR, BBC, WBZ and other audio news outlets. The best productions will be pitched to WBUR and State House clients for their websites. 4 cr, 1st sem.  		

COM JO 718: Magazine Workshop
		This final magazine writing course is designed to create a published magazine as a writing portfolio for students. This is a studio course, taught by two professors, which covers writing and design in a setting that captures the dynamics of professional practice. Students within each group, assume professional positions and conceptualize, write, edit, design, and publish magazines. Magazines are designed and published using QuarkXPress and Adobe Photoshop. Design concepts and techniques, along with computer programs used in this course, are taught with step by step instructions. 4 cr 2nd sem		

COM JO 719: Feature Writing
		Writing feature articles for newspapers, magazines and other media. Covers markets open to free-lance writers, published articles, newspaper feature sections, and Sunday supplements. 		

COM JO 721: Journalism Principles and Techniques
	Required. Students acquire techniques of newswriting and reporting by covering a full range of news stories in a laboratory situation. Stress on deadline pressure, writing, and reporting. Includes weekly seminar on journalism principles as illustrated by current events and controversies. 		

COM JO 722: Advanced Journalism Seminar
		Required. Newswriting and reporting in Boston and surrounding communities. Students cover working beats.		

COM JO 723: Science Newswriting I
	Students develop experience in writing about science, technology, and medicine for the consumer press. At instructor's option, students may write scripts for broadcast and/or articles for publication in scientific, professional, or business magazines and periodicals. 		

COM JO 724: Science in the Crosshairs
	This course guides students toward writing short, pithy features and reports on  issues of scientific controversy, introducing students to the technical basics  of short form narrative, while also taking a hard look at a number of scientific  issues.  Also a refresher unit on statistics and one on the politics of  scientific journals.  The focus will be on learning to think, report, research  and write as a journalist while at the same time building a sound understanding  of some of the most critical issues of our day.  Students will be expected to  produce four pieces of writing- ranging from brief expository pieces to a fully  formed profile.		

COM JO 727: Special Studies
			

COM JO 732: Conflict and Commentary in Science Reporting
	A course in writing about science policy issues, including in-depth coverage of  controversial issues and writing scientific-related essay, such as those that  appear in Slate and Salon.  classroom discussions will involve complex areas of  science reporting, including scientific fraud and business issues related to  science.		

COM JO 733: Enterprise Reporting
	Students will produce in depth video reports similar to what is seen on network  TV news magazine programs, news web sites or local television series.  Review of  job trends in the industry and how to produce a resume/reel website.		

COM JO 734: Broadcast Journalism I: Television News Production
	Introduction to basic techniques of video news, with emphasis on function of the  writer. Includes on-air techniques, editing, and feature and documentary planning  and production. 		

COM JO 735: Professional Project
	Required of all graduate broadcast concentrators.  Production of a broadcast- ready portfolio project demonstrating strong writing, research and multimedia  skills.  Students choose a news topic to report, whether in the form of a video  or radio documentary, a  multimedia website, a series of video or radio reports  or a multimedia app.  Individual faculty members supervise this capstone project  during the course of the semester.		

COM JO 736: TV News Magazine
		Students produce, anchor, and report a single-topic news magazine program,  broadcast on deadline.  Students advance their anchoring skills by preparing a  half-hour program featuring video and live reports.		

COM JO 737: Journalism Internship
	Required broadcast, print, magazine, online or photo internship under supervision  of faculty.		

COM JO 738: Business & Economics Internship
	Required internship under supervision of faculty.		

COM JO 754: Science Journalism Internship
	To be taken during the summer between second and third semesters of the program  and then registered during the third semester.		

