SED EN 505: Student-Teaching Half Practicum: English 8-12
           			Minimum 150 hours required. For description, see SED EN 508. 4 cr, 1st sem.		

SED EN 506: Curriculum Materials and Teaching Strategies in English
	Considers research-based strategies for teaching short fiction, poetry, novels, drama, grammar, and   vocabulary. The course also considers key aspects of the teaching and learning process such as lesson and   unit planning, assessment, and the role of local, state and federal standards in the English/Language Arts   classroom. 4 cr, 1st sem.		

SED EN 507: Student-Teaching Practicum: English, Grades 5-8
           			Full-time student-teaching in selected middle schools for a period of 12 weeks. Should be taken  concurrently with SED EN506. Minimum 300 hours required. 8 cr, either sem.		

SED EN 508: Student-Teaching Practicum: English, 8-12
	Full-time student teaching in selected high schools for a period of 12 weeks. Should be taken  concurrently with SED EN506. Minimum 300 hours required. 8 cr, either sem.		

SED EN 512: Methods of Teaching Writing in Secondary English Language Arts
	EN512 introduces aspiring middle and secondary English/Language Arts teachers to research-based  practices for effective writing instruction. Topics include writing workshop, mentor texts, genre study,  strategy instruction, process-based instruction and revision. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED EN 608: Student-Teaching Practicum: English, 5-8
		Only for matriculated graduate students seeking professional licensure under current program. Full-time  student-teaching in selected schools. Six weeks; Minimum 150 hours required. 4 cr, 1st sem.		

SED EN 609: Student-Teaching Practicum: English, 8-12
		Only for matriculated graduate students seeking current professional licensure. Full-time teaching in  selected high schools. Six weeks; Minimum 150 hours required. 4 cr, either sem.		

SED EN 701: Teaching Classic and Contemporary Texts
		Students will examine the demands of texts in the secondary classroom and components of successful  reading. The course will analyze research-based practices in reading instruction in the middle and  secondary English Language Arts classes. Methods for assessing and differentiating according to various  dimensions will be introduced. 4cr. 1st sem.		

SED EN 712: Methods of Teaching Writing in Secondary English Language Arts
	The course introduces graduate aspiring middle and secondary English/Language Arts teachers to  research-based practices for effective writing instruction and contains opportunities for application in a  field experience. Topics include writing workshop, mentor texts, genre study, strategy instruction,  process-based instruction and revision. 4cr. 2nd sem.		

SED HE 221: Foundations of Health Education
	Provides the foundation for improving health through modification of daily  habits. Analysis of nutrition, exercise, stress, substance abuse, and  environmental health. 2cr, either sem.		

SED HE 522: Community Health
	Examines the interrelationship of school and community health programs. Community health services,  health environment, and healthful living emphasized. The responsibilities and the coordination of school  and agency personnel in total health education programs are addressed. 4 cr, 1st sem.		

SED HE 523: Applied Nutrition
	Essential principles of nutrition applied to educational programs in school  and community agencies. Enrichment of courses in heath education, nursing education, and allied health  fields. Presentations by outstanding leaders in the areas of nutrition, medicine, public health, and  education. 4 cr, either sem.		

SED HE 554: Health Education Student Teaching Grades K-12
	Licensure track health education students complete this final practicum in the public schools with a   licensed health educator as their supervising practitioner. The twelve-week practicum provides the   opportunity for applying theory with teaching exposure in two school settings (secondary, middle and/or   elementary). 8 cr, either sem.		

SED HE 722: Curriculum Development for Health, Movement and Wellness
	For individuals in a variety of settings involved in planning curricula related to health, movement and  wellness. Explores influences on curriculum development and implementation focusing on effective  planning for behavior change in a variety of populations within schools and communities. 4 cr, 1st sem.		

SED LC 500: Directed Study
	Open to undergraduate students only. Prereq: approval of advisor, the faculty member who is to supervise  the study, and department chair. Plans must be submitted in advance of registration on a form obtained  from the department office. Variable cr, either sem.		

SED LC 900: Independent Study
	See SED AP 900 for description.		

SED LC 999: Dissertation Advisement
	See SED AP 999 for description.		

SED LP 999: London SED Prog
			

SED LR 501: Teaching of Reading
	For upperlevel undergraduate and beginning graduate students without experience in teaching.   Study of  reading development in childhood and early adolescence, and the implications for  teaching and learning.   Discussion of theory and research in effective instruction, and the  application of both to effective lesson  planning. 4 cr.either sem. 		

SED LR 503: Reading and Writing Assessment
	Acquaints undergraduate students in Special Education and Elementary Education with strategies  for  assessing literacy and abilities of students classified as general education leatners.  Analysis of  prototypic  case studies.  Provides foundation for a two-credit module (SED SE 515) that addresses  the particular  needs of special populations.  2 cr. either sem. 		

