SED ED 245: Theory and Practice of Peer Counseling
	Examines the theory of peer counseling and the development of specific counseling skills.  Students  enrolled in this class will serve as peer advisors in the CAS First Year Seminar course. 2 cr. Either sem.		

SED ED 246: Practicum in Peer Leadership and Mentoring
	Provides advanced mentoring training and leadership experience for selected students who have  completed ED245 (Theory and Practice or Peer Counseling). Students will mentor the students serving as  peer mentors in FY101 (First Year Seminar) and enrolled in ED245. 2cr, 1st sem.		

SED ED 251: Community Service in an Urban Setting
	For students participating in volunteer community service; reflect on the experience, with academically-   appropriate readings, periodic discussion guided by the instructor, and graded writing assignments. A1:   Volunteering in the Boston Public Schools. Instructor: Ruth Shane. B1: Volunteering with Reach out and  Read.  Instructor: Katherine Sullivan		

SED ED 410: Social Context of Education
           			How culture, race, language, poverty, social change, urban pressures, and rural isolation affect the work of  schools and other educational institutions, based upon reading, discussion, field research, and  extensive  writing by students. SED ED 410 A1 and ED 412 A1 must be taken in  the same semester or ED 410 B1 in  the fall and ED 412 B1 in the spring. 2cr.		

SED ED 412: Civic Context of Education
           			Political and professional decision making in education in a democracy, emergent issues in educational   policy, and the ethics of educational practice, based upon reading, discussion, planning exercises, and   extensive writing by students. ED 410 A1 and ED 412 A1 must be taken in the same semester or ED 410  B1 in the  fall and ED 412 B1 in the spring. 2cr.		

SED ED 500: Foundations of Educational Practices
		Open only to graduate students enrolled in classroom initial licensure  programs. Focuses on learning and teaching in schools in terms of  historical, philosophical, social, and political issues. An introduction to the  occupation of teaching through placement in local schools, lectures,  readings, written assignments, and small group discussions. 6cr, 1st sem, Summer Term.		

SED ED 501: Foundations of Educational Practice Lab
	Orientation to school requirements, state licensure, and technology.  Introduction to the uses of educational media and technology in  classrooms. Includes introduction to networks accessible to teachers and  students. Must be taken concurrently with SED ED 500. 1st sem, Summer Term.		

SED ED 502: Ana Fnds Tch
			

SED ED 503: Professional Teaching Seminar I: Analyzing Foundations of Teaching
	Introductory seminar analyzes important foundational teaching issues: varieties of excellent teaching,  diverse philosophies of schools, curriculum complexities in middle and senior high schools, history of  education for the 20th and 21st centuries, and the power of community - culture - school inter-relations.  ED 502 A1 must be taken in the fall, and ED 503 A1 must be taken in the spring.		

SED ED 600: Schooling in the United States
	 An overview of the social and policy context of elementary and secondary schooling in the United States,  and of current reform initiatives, through readings, guest speakers, discussions, and field experiences in  urban schools. 4 cr. either sem.		

SED ED 703: Intellectual History of Education: Plato, Rousseau, James and Lewis
	Readings in and discussion of The Republic, Émile, Talks with Teachers,  and The Abolition of Man? Intended to introduce doctoral students to the thinking and writing about  significant issues in education with conceptual sophistication. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED ED 704: The Intellectual Foundations of Education
	Emphasize close readings of selections from significant philosophic texts, discussions about the issues   they raise, and connections to contemporary debates about American education. Included will be   selections from Locke, Franklin, Jefferson, Rousseau, Pestalozzi, Emerson, Mann, and Dewey. 4cr, 2nd  sem.		

SED ED 950: Continuing Study
	For EdM, CAGS, and EdD candidates who have completed all coursework and who are preparing for  comprehensive examinations or dissertation hearings, or are completing theses. No credit.		

SED EM 670: Advanced Interactive Software Development
	Achieving the learning objectives of student-designed projects shapes student learning of advanced,   multimedia, and authoring software. Students use software to build, test, and revise their own interactive,   educational, multimedia, and program designs. Best taken in conjunction with EM690 or EM731. 2cr, 2nd  sem.		

SED EM 810: Practicum: Instructional Technology
		Field experience offered in media facilities of industry, higher education, health services, and instructional  technology-centered school activities. Students spend time in media facilities programs. Variable cr, either  sem.		

SED EM 812: Internship: Educational Technology
		Supervised fieldwork in various educational media settings. Selection of site and conditions is determined  by student's preparation and program requirements. Variable cr.		

SED EN 501: Teaching Classic and Contemporary Texts
	Students will examine the demands of texts in the secondary classroom and components of successful  reading. The course will analyze research-based practices in reading instruction in the middle and  secondary English Language Arts classes. Methods for assessing and differentiating according to various  dimensions will be introduced. 4cr. 1st sem.		

SED EN 502: Student-Teaching Reflective Seminar
	EN502 offers undergraduate English Education majors engaging in their student-teaching the opportunity  to come together weekly with a faculty member to reflect upon successes, challenges, and questions raised  by the internship. Students will engage in common readings and write short weekly reflections that  synthesize assigned readings and the internship experience. 2cr, 1st sem.		

SED EN 503: Lesson Design &amp; Instruction Delivery in the Humanities
	This course will introduce students to different models of lesson planning and unit planning as well as  research-based strategies for effective instructional delivery in the secondary humanities classroom. It will  include a 75 hour pre-practicum experience. 4cr, either sem.		

SED EN 504: Student-Teaching Half Practicum: English, 5-8
		Minimum 150 hours required. For description, see SED EN 507. 4 cr, 1st sem.		

