SED AP 500: Directed Study
           			Open to undergraduate students only. Prereq: approval of advisor, the faculty member who is to supervise  the study, and department chair. Plans must be submitted in advance of registration on a form obtained  from the department office. Variable cr, either sem.		

SED AP 550: Perspectives on Higher Education
	An introduction to the history and philosophy of higher education in  Europe and America. Focus on the interplay between the goals of the  university and the demands placed on higher education by society. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED AP 551: Issues in Higher Education Administration
	Examines crucial issues facing higher education administration, including curriculum, governance, finance,  and mission. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED AP 553: Student Affairs in Higher Education
	Many valuable university lessons are learned outside of the classroom. Through selected readings, class   discussion, and guest lectures, this course will provide an overview of non-academic learning   opportunities for student fostered by the departments that constitute student affairs divisions. 4cr, 2nd   sem.		

SED AP 600: Diversity and Justice in Education
	How schools, colleges, and other education settings are affected by the growing pluralism of our society;    the tension between respect for diversity and the maintenance of common purpose. Strategies of    integration and separate development and of remediation and enrichment. 4cr, either sem.		

SED AP 630: Education and Religion
	The relationship of government with schools and colleges based on  religious convictions and the efforts of educators to shape and maintain a  distinctive character in such institutions. Issues of educational freedom  and the rights of parents from historical and comparative international  perspectives. Students prepare a paper on a topic selected in  consultation with the instructor. (Also offered as STH TE 845.)		

SED AP 662: Strategic Planning and Implementation
	This course is designed to equip students with the knowledge and skills needed to lead a department,   organization, school and/or school district in planning more effectively for a constantly changing   internal and external environment. Emphasis will be placed on the components and the discipline of   strategic planning and implementation. Primarily through in-class workshops, supplemented by   lectures, presentations, readings, assignments and other activities, students will learn about the entire   strategic planning and implementation process, applying the concepts and skills learned to their own   practice as aspiring or developing leaders, and developing a strategic planning document on projects of   their choice. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED AP 702: Doctoral Colloquium in Educational Leadership and Development
	Provides students with an understanding of the basic purposes and  essential logic of educational inquiry.   Students critically examine and  discuss selected policy studies, research reports, and literature reviews  in   order to understand the evidentiary requirements for making factual  claims. Connections are drawn to   issues of research design. 2cr, 2nd sem.		

SED AP 720: Performance-Based Instructional Leadership
	Utilizing theoretical constructs and practical experiences, this course is designed to prepare aspiring    and developing principals, supervisors and other school leaders to organize, lead and transform schools    and school systems into high performing organizations focused on student achievement. Through    readings, case studies, presentations, independent and group work, and other activities, students will    examine and analyze the qualities, characteristics, behaviors and practices of effective leaders, with an    emphasis on effective instructional leadership. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED AP 750: Educator Evaluation and Supervision
	Students examine alternative perspectives on the evaluation and supervision of educational personnel,   including legal, philosophical, and empirical perspectives. Emphasis in supervision is on effective patterns   of interpersonal communication between subordinate and supervisory personnel. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED AP 751: Conflict Resolution
	Focuses on both conceptual and practical aspects of conflict resolution  within an educational institution. Addresses the general characteristics,  advantages, and disadvantages of negotiation, ombudsman, mediation,  and arbitration processes as they apply to conflicts that arise in an  educational setting; factors influencing the outcome of a conflict resolution  effort; ethical considerations in using conflict resolution processes; and  existing programs for training educational administrators, teachers, and  students in conflict resolution techniques. 		

SED AP 753: Educational Policy
	State and national policies affecting k-12 education in the United States. Debates about  common state   standards, testing, school finance, language of instruction, school autonomy, teacher  quality, and the   rights of parents. 4cr, 1st sem.   		

SED AP 754: Educational Equity and the Law
	Student and teacher rights and equal opportunity in K-12 education. 2cr, 1st sem.		

SED AP 755: Legal Issues in Higher Education
	Using the case method, this course considers issues that arise in the administration of institutions of  higher education and the ethical and legal principles applicable to their resolution. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED AP 757: School Labor Relations and Personnel Management
	Focus on policies and procedures affecting personnel management in  the schools. Topics include: collective bargaining; managing reduction in  force; grievance processing; legal liability of employees and officials; and  equality considerations in recruitment, promotion, and affirmative action. 2cr, 1st sem.		

SED AP 758: School Governance, Finance, and Operations
	Focuses on the economics, politics, and administration of school finance from both theoretical and   practical perspectives. Emphasis is placed on the planning, policy, and procedural aspects of school   funding, resource allocation, and school plant management. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED AP 761: Organizational Analysis
	Students define and document organizational problems, identify positive and negative stakeholders,  analyze possible problem causes using a range of theoretical frameworks, and examine alternative  strategies for resolving or ameliorating the problem. Students should come to the first class with a  specific organizational problem in mind and with sufficient knowledge of the organization to perform  thorough and detailed analyses. Advanced copies of the syllabus are generally available several weeks  in advance. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED AP 771: Advanced Policy Seminar
		Students use appropriate theories and methods to examine critically important policy issues in public and  private education and in corporate training and development. Includes preparation for departmental  comprehensive examination. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED AP 801: Internship
	Part-time unpaid assignment in approved educational or community agency. Var.		

SED AP 802: Practicum/Apprenticeship/Internship: Principals (Pre-K-6)
		Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed prerequisites. Supervised field    placement to demonstrate competencies in the principal's role. The internship requires 300 hours of    supervised field placement. Open only to candidates for Massachusetts licensure as principals who have    passed the School of Education Literacy Test. Var cr, either sem.		

