SED SE 693: Practicum in Disabilities Studies
	Students are involved in practicum experiences in human services agencies serving individuals with   disabilities. Concurrent seminars discuss the nature and processes of service provision, roles and   responsibilities, and collaboration.  Students work for a minimum of 150 hours in the agency for 4 credits   and 300 hours for 8 credits.		

SED SE 700: Clinical Practice:Teacher of Students with  Moderate Special Needs
		Required of students who wish to apply for standard certification as teachers of students with moderate  disabilities. Integrates content area knowledge and pedagogical theory and practice. Involves  responsibilities beyond the individual classroom which may include opportunities such as grade-level  teamwork, curriculum development, and assessment projects. Minimum 400 hours required. 4-8cr, either  sem.		

SED SE 701: Clinical Practice:Teacher of Students with Severe Disabilities
		Required of students who wish to apply for professional licensure as teachers of students with severe  disabilities. Integrates content area knowledge and pedagogical theory and practice. Involves  responsibilities beyond the individual classroom which may include opportunities such as grade-level  teamwork, curriculum development, and assessment projects. Minimum 400 hours required. 4cr, either  sem.		

SED SE 702: Clinical Practice:Special Education Administration
		Required of students who wish to apply for licensure as an Administrator of Special Education. Integrates  content-area knowledge and pedagogical theory and practice. Builds upon the practicum experience. A  minimum of 400 hours is required. Instructor permission required.		

SED SE 706: Introduction to Special Education
	Improves students' understanding of individuals with disabilities; traces the development of their programs  and services; and analyzes and critiques key assumptions, attitudes, and beliefs about special education  practices. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED SE 751: Assessment in Special Education: Procedures
	Examines both alternative assessment and standardized test instruments. Assessment practices and critical  issues are addressed, including the assessment of culturally and linguistically diverse pupils. Examples  include math, literacy/reading, social/adaptive behaviors, cognitive aptitude, and career-vocational  considerations. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SE 760: Special Education: Cognition, Learning, and Behavior
	Examines characteristics of learning disabilities, emotional disturbance, intellectual impairments, speech  and language disabilities, developmental disabilities, and attention deficit disorder, as related to the major  learning theories.  2cr, 1st sem.		

SED SE 807: Field Experience
		Graduate students are involved in field experiences in schools, institutions, clinics, and other human  services agencies. Concurrent seminars discuss strategies of intervention and/or curriculum planning or  assessment procedures. Students must register for a minimum of 2 credits. 2cr, 1st sem.		

SED SE 808: Internship: Students with Special Needs, Pre-K-8
			

SED SE 900: Independent Study
	See SED AP 900 for description.		

SED SE 999: Dissertation Advisement
	See SED AP 999 for description.		

SED SO 507: Student-Teaching Half Practicum: History and Social Science, 5-8
		Minimum 150 hours required. OPen only to matriculated graduate students who have completed  prerequisites. For description, see SED SO 509. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SO 508: Student-Teaching Half Practicum: History and Social Science, 8-12
		Minimum 150 hours required. OPen only to matriculated graduate students who have completed  prerequisites. For description, see SED SO 510. 4cr, 2nd sem. 		

SED SO 509: Student-Teaching Practicum: History and Social Science, 5-8
	Student teaching under joint supervision of a cooperating practitioner and a University representative.  Minimum 300 hours required. 8cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SO 510: Student-Teaching Practicum: History and Social Science, 8-12
	Student teaching under joint supervision of a cooperating practitioner and a University representative.  Minimum 300 hours required. 8cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SO 520: Project Citizen: Promoting Civic Engagement
	Students apply a model of citizen action (Project Citizen) to analyze and influence a current public policy of  their choice. The course also examines how that model can be used to promote active and informed  citizenship among youth and adults. 2cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SO 566: Developing Historical Literacy, 5-12
	Students will investigate the history, subspecialties, pedagogy, and research in history education as related  to historical thinking, literacy, and problem solving. Students will develop competencies in developing and  presenting research-based history lessons. 4cr, either sem.		

SED SO 567: History Laboratory
	History Lab will be held at the Old North Church in the North End of Boston. There, we will explore how   to develop lessons using historic documents, objects, and places. Ideal for those who want to   incorporate authentic historical materials and methods into their classrooms.   Each class will explore an  essential historical question, skill, and/or concept, such as: * History v. the Past: How can the same  object can be interpreted differently in the same time period by  different people; different time periods  for different purposes? * How do you determine "meaning" when the idea transcends the object? * What  does the arrangement of physical space reveal about the individuals who used that space?   Based on  each question, students will use primary and secondary historic sources to 'solve' that  historical  question. Once the question is "solved," the remainder of the class will be devoted to  exploring multiple  ways and instances in which to teach that question, skill, and/or concept. Students  will then practice  teaching these skills and concepts to each other or other volunteers drawn from the  historic site.   This  is a great way to begin to explore or expand your history teaching skills in a really interesting, fun   environment, while learning about one of the great historic sites in Boston. 2cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SO 572: Curriculum and Special Methods for History and Social Science, 5-12
	Reviews traditional and recent curriculum materials in history or social science education for middle,   junior, and senior high school. Analysis of curricular goals for grades 5-12. Development of new teaching   materials and classroom techniques for social studies education at various age levels. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SO 713: Field Experience: Intercultural Education
	Field experience in intercultural education within an educational setting. In most cases, this involves the  development of instructional materials and a research project. 4cr		

