SED DE 572: Psychology and the Deaf
	Surveys historical, current philosophical, and future directions in educating Deaf children. Includes the  study of concepts and research specifically related to the psychological functioning of Deaf children and  adults. 4cr, 1st, sem.		

SED DE 573: Expressive and Receptive Vocal Processes
	Study of the vocal processes necessary for the production and reception of speech. Students gain  foundational knowledge and practical methodology in teaching speech to Deaf children. Review of  medical, speech, and hearing research related to Deaf and hard-of-hearing children. Covers interpreting  audiograms and the function and maintenance of hearing aids. 2cr, 1st sem.		

SED DE 574: Prepracticum: Initial Strategies
		Field-based course emphasizing a one-to-one or tutorial approach (therapeutic) to implement strategies  for enhancing the expressive/receptive communication skills of Deaf children. Allows implementation of  coursework experiences. Includes 75 hours of field experience. Variable cr, either sem.		

SED DE 575: Language and the Deaf Child
		First part of a two-semester sequence applying current linguistic principles to classroom instruction and  language assessment for Deaf children. Provides exposure to current language assessment instruments  and bilingual approaches to educating Deaf children in the classroom. (ASL/English). 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED DE 576: Advanced Language and the Deaf Child
		Emphasis on the application of practical methodology based on current theoretical models developed first  semester. Focuses on language assessment and suggested strategies for instructing Deaf children.  (ASL/English). 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED DE 577: Instructional Strategies and the Deaf Child
	Advanced course designed to provide students with strategies for adapting previously studied curriculum  design, innovation, construction, and evaluation procedures. Students adapt and develop materials for  teaching reading, mathematics, and other content areas for preschool and elementary-age Deaf children  with respect to the Massachusetts Curriculum Frameworks. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED DE 590: American Sign Language III
		Intermediate course designed for students who have completed a minimum of ASL I and ASL II. Offers a  more in-depth discussion of the principles of American Sign Language. Emphasizes receptive and  expressive skills.  Presents further exposure to more sophisticated dialogue. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED DE 591: American Sign Language IV
		In-depth discussion of principles of American Sign Language (ASL). Emphasizes expressive skills. Provides  exposure to discourse processes in ASL. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED DE 592: American Sign Language V: Academic Language
	Open to teachers and others who have completed two years of ASL or are considered advanced in ASL.   Focus is on learning how to translate educational concepts commonly found in content classes such as   history, the sciences, mathematics, and literature. How to find common signs for historical figures,   creating signs for concepts according to ASL principles, etc. 2cr, 2nd sem.		

SED DE 672: American Sign Language Structure
		Structural linguistic study of specific aspects of phonology, morphology, syntax, and lexicology in ASL.  Concepts of language variation, dialect, creolization, and bilingualism. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED DE 678: Practicum/Practicum Equivalent: Student-Teaching
		Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed prerequisites. Full-time 16-week  component. Students participate in classroom  instruction in either a residential or a day school/day class program  (totaling 300 hours). Students are placed with master teachers in a  self-contained, resource room, and/or itinerant settings. Variable cr, either sem.		

SED DE 690: Seminar: Practicum
	This seminar is designed to provide opportunities to discuss topics relevant to student teaching with Deaf   Children. Although we will address a number of areas our primary focus will be on (1) the role of ASL in   content areas in addition to (2) the use of effective teaching strategies. (must be enrolled in DE 678).  Variable cr, either sem.		

SED DE 691: Advanced Seminar: Learning and the Deaf
	The major aim of the seminar is to examine the current research on a topic pertinent to learning in Deaf   children. The goal is to develop a more in depth understanding of research in learning and the Deaf.    Research articles will be reviewed and topics will be selected for discussion. 2cr, either sem.		

SED DE 693: American Sign Language 6
	This is an advanced level course. Students will be trained to use academic ASL in the bilingual teaching of   content areas (English, Language Arts, History, Mathematics, Science) paying special attention to concepts   vocabulary and terminology that commonly appear in the content areas. Students will be expected to   produce ASL based resources for various content areas. 4cr, either sem.		

SED DS 502: Adolescent Development
	An overview of diverse developmental theories of preadolescence and adolescence, including physical,    cognitive, sociomoral, personal, and identity development. Examines how education may promote these    broad, interrelated human competencies.  Social institutions that promote or inhibit the growth and    learning of adolescents- particularly in middle and secondary schools and within the family- are    studied. Relies heavily on general reading with student- and faculty-led discussions. Requires an    analytical paper or applied project. 2cr, either sem.		

SED DS 504: Adolescent Development
	This course is an overview of diverse development theories of preadolescence, adolescence, and young  adult development.  Cognitive, sociomoral, personal, and identity development are examined as well as  physical, motor, and fitness development. The course relies heavily on general reading with student - and  faculty- led discussions.		

SED DS 600: Culture, Ethnicity and Race: A developmental approach
	This graduate-level course is for students interested in human development and counseling. We consider  cultural and racial-ethic differences in development and how these differences translate into counseling  practices. We consider several topics including: communication, child-rearing, cognitive development, and  schooling. 4 cr. either sem. and Sum.		

SED DS 700: Advanced Seminar in Sport and Exercise Psychology
	Emphasis on theory, research, and applied aspects of contemporary sport and exercise psychology.  Students develop a research project that involves conceptualizing a problem statement, designing a study,  and collecting and analyzing data. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED EC 206: Working with At-Risk Preschoolers
	This course is designed to provide information about successful  interventions in preschool classrooms.  The course also provides  information about the overall context of the achievement gap and  related  issues.  2cr, 2nd sem.		

SED EC 305: Child Development and Early Childhood Education
