SED EC 350: Introduction to Early Childhood Education
	Overview of the historical and philosophical foundations of early childhood  education, Pre-K-2. Study of selected programs and curriculum models in  a variety of settings. 2cr, either sem.		

SED EC 405: Preschool Curriculum and Fieldwork
           			Required in initial licensure program for majors. Includes supervised teaching of 3-to-5-year-olds.  Emphasis on curriculum development, instructional planning, classroom management,  assessment/evaluation, and adaption of teaching to special learners. 8cr, either sem.		

SED EC 453: Early Childhood Practicum K
           			Develops competency in reading and language skills, social and science  education, basic elements of curriculum design, and the institutional  policies and practices of early childhood education. 8cr, both sem.		

SED EC 507: Role of Play in Child Development
	Examines theories of play. Role of play in cognitive, affective, and social development of the child; play   and creativity. Field observation and analysis required for licensure program students. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED EC 511: Early Childhood Curriculum and Prepracticum
	Seminars and fieldwork in early childhood classrooms. Seminars examine instructional practices in literacy  and language arts, social science, and science. 4cr, either sem.		

SED EC 516: Early Childhood Curriculum and Practicum, K-2
		Open only to matriculated graduate students. Includes reading and the other language arts, social science  and science education, as well as basic elements of curriculum design, instruction, assessment, and  classroom management in early childhood classrooms, K-2. Application in field settings. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED EC 553: Early Childhood Student-Teaching Practicum 1-2
           			Required of students who seek licensure in early childhood education. Supervised student teaching in a 1- 2 classroom (for undergraduates only) including classroom management and evaluation of the learner.  Requires participation in seminars. 10cr (undergraduate), either sem.		

SED EC 556: Children's Literature for the Early Childhood Teachers, Pre-K-2
	Introduces a wide array of children's literature, fiction and nonfiction, appropriate and necessary for the   establishment of a literacy-based classroom. Students develop criteria for literature evaluation, investigate   media's influence upon literature, and explore ways to incorporate children's literature throughout the  preK-2 curriculum. 2cr, either sem.		

SED EC 557: Classroom-Based Assessment of Young Children, Pre K-2
	Prepares early childhood majors to conduct assessment of children  within the classroom. History of assessment, current trends, and  assessment principles will be examined. Students will evaluate assessment tools and gain skills necessary  for classroom-based assessment. 2cr, either sem.		

SED EC 605: Topics in Child Development and Education
		In-depth coverage of selected aspects of development in children from birth to seven years. Includes both    descriptive information (milestones) and theory (processes accounting for development). Stresses    applications to early education. Taken concurrently with SED EC611 by graduate students in the licensure   program unless waiver is obtained. 4cr, 1st sem. 		

SED EC 611: Preschool Curriculum and Prepracticum
		Open only to matriculated graduate students in the licensure program.  Field-based course emphasizing instruction materials design, curriculm  development, and observation and assessment at the preschool level. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED EC 653: Early Childhood Practicum, Grades 1-2
		Required for students seeking licensure. Provides one semester of  supervised work in curriculum development, materials design, and  classroom organization and management. Requires 5-day-per-week  involvement in a Grades 1-2 classroom and participation in five seminars. 8cr, either sem.		

SED ED 201: Tutoring Struggling Readers and Writers
	This course is intended for those who are outside the profession of education (e.g. parents, community   workers, non-SED students) to support children and adults who find learning to read and write difficult.   The course will provide an introduction to the types of texts and teaching strategies that make a   difference.  		

SED ED 207: Contemporary Issues in Education Policy (International Perspective)
	A series of lectures and discussions designed to address contemporary issues in education, this course  will devote time each week to exploring aspects of education policy in different countries. Topics that will  be addressed include: school finance, school choice, international testing, policies affecting immigrant and  minority children, and the role of international organizations. Stillings, Wed. 6:00-7:30   		

SED ED 210: Exploring Careers in Science Education
	For science majors interested in exploring careers in science  education.  Students will work directly with   teachers from CityLab,  a  biotechnology learning laboratory at BU's School of Medicine and the Boston   Museum  of  Science.   Dates/times TBA		

SED ED 211: Emerging Technologies in Education
	Use wikis, blogs, social book marking, photo sharing sites, and podcasting to evaluate your own learning    and to create educational materials in this brand new 2-credit evening course.   (meets for entire  semester)		

SED ED 214: Educating Global Citizens
	Learn and act. Explore conflict resolution by studying current global events and teaching Boston-area high  school students the ?experiential education? approach to successful mediation. As a final project, small  groups author new, original geo-political case studies they employ in high school classrooms, gaining an  in-depth understanding of how to teach the origins, potential consequences and solutions to global issues  facing us today.		

SED ED 225: Project Citizen:  Promoting Civic Engagement
	Students apply a model of citizen action (Project Citizen) to analyze and influence a current public policy   of their choice. The course also examines how that model can be used to promote active and informed   citizenship among youth and adults. 2cr, on demand.		

SED ED 226: Tching Matters
	This course description is currently under construction.		

SED ED 231: Tutoring Readers and Writers
	This course is intended for those who are outside the profession of education (e.g. parents, community  workers, non-SED students) to support children and adults who find learning to read and write difficult.  The course will provide an introduction to the types of texts and teaching strategies that make a  difference.  		

