SED CT 500: Directed Study
	Student initiated directed study to be completed with faculty member. var cr. either sem.		

SED CT 534: A Practical Approach to Classroom Management
	CT534 is designed to support middle and secondary teachers in developing a practical, effective and  low-stress approach to classroom management. The course focuses on a classroom management  system with four components: classroom structure, limit-setting, responsibility training and back-up  systems. Through course readings, reflective writing, class discussion and simulations, participants will  develop effective classroom management practices, break current "high cost" and ineffective strategies,  and establish a proactive, positive classroom setting that maximizes time on learning and minimizes  classroom disruptions.  2cr.  1st sem.		

SED CT 556: Classroom Assessment
	Emphasizes principles and procedures of assessment that are of primary importance to educational  practitioners. Includes diagnostic tests, construction of classroom tests, observation techniques, and  performance measures; norm- and criterion-referenced assessment; uses of standardized tests, current  issues and controversies. 4cr, either sem.		

SED CT 575: General Methods of Instruction, 5-12
	Development of teaching skills and classroom strategies common to a variety of teaching matters.   Includes instructional planning, integrating subject matter with learner's age level and educational   environment. Analysis of best practices across all academic areas, learning theories, evaluation, and   specific teaching techniques; 4cr, either sem.		

SED CT 703: Mentored Field Experience
	Open to matriculated students in Curriculum &amp; Teaching seeking professional licensure in a field and at  the level in which they hold a valid initial license. A minimum of 60 hours of mentored experience beyond  the induction year. Seminar and field consultation with University staff. 2cr.		

SED CT 750: Basic Principles for Curriculum and Teaching
	Analysis of important philosophers (e.g., Plato, Aristotle, Dewey, Whitehead) for insights into principles of  curriculum design and classroom teaching. Focuses on accurate formulation of current and classic  educational problems. Seminar format for doctoral students only. Required for departmental EdD students.  4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED CT 770: Seminar on Teaching
	In-depth study of the philosophy, sociology, the practice of teaching. Although most of the readings   related are pre-K-12 schooling, students interested in teaching in  other settings are welcome. Not a  course  in beginning methods of instruction. 4cr, alternating fall semesters.		

SED CT 799: Master's Thesis in Curriculum and Teaching
	Students seeking to complete a master's thesis must present a proposal and secure approval of the  department chairman, one faculty member to direct the study, and one other faculty member. 4cr, either  sem.		

SED CT 801: Practicum/Practicum Equivalent: Supervisor/Director
		Supervised field placement for 300 hours for one semester to demonstrate competencies in the   supervisor/director role. Sections indicate specialties that are supervised by practitioners within that  area.  Open only to candidates for Massachusetts licensure as supervisors/directors and to matriculated   graduate students who have completed prerequisites. 4cr, either sem.		

SED CT 802: Field Experience in Curriculum and Teaching
		Supervised field experience for students holding professional appointments. Must meet field of knowledge  requirements and professional preparation that is equivalent to licensure sequence. Open only to  matriculated graduate students who have completed prerequisites. Consent of department chair required.  8cr, either sem.		

SED CT 900: Independent Study
	See SED AP 900 for description.		

SED CT 999: Dissertation Advisement
	See SED AP 999 for description.		

SED DC 900: Independent Study
	See SED AP 900 for description.		

SED DE 500: Introduction to the Deaf-World
	The purpose of this course is to provide a general introduction to the lives, history, and culture of  American Deaf people who use American Sign Language (ASL) as their vernacular language. The role of  schools in the formation of the community and maintenance of ASL will be examined.4 cr, 1st sem.		

SED DE 551: Deaf Literature and ASL Folklore
	Representative fiction, nonfiction, poetry, and drama depicted in readings and videotapes related to  everyday lives of Deaf people. Develops insight and appreciation of Deaf literature and ASL folklore and  their implications for education.  (Offered alternate years.) 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED DE 552: Seminar: Selected Topics in Deaf Studies
	Topics pertinent to current cultural and educational issues concerning Deaf adults and children. Children's  literature, development of services for and by the Deaf (locally, nationally, internationally); the  professions: law, medicine, and education, and their effects on society's view of the Deaf; aging and the  Deaf. In-depth discussion and contact with professionals in these areas.  (Offered alternate years.) 4cr, 1st  sem.		

SED DE 554: Field Experience: Deaf Studies
           			Students work in an agency providing services to Deaf people for a minimum of one day per week.  Supervision maintained in cooperation with the staff of the Deaf Studies Program and agency personnel.  Specific placement depends on students' interests in particular setting or area. Variable cr, either sem.		

SED DE 555: Literacy skills in Deaf children
	Current instructional approaches and strategies for developing literacy skills in Deaf children will be  examined. Expanded definitions of literacy will be explored and relevant research will be examined.  Finally, a comprehensive discussion of designing instruction that aligns with the MA Curriculum  Frameworks will be included. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED DE 570: American Sign Language I
	Introductory course that provides non-native signers an opportunity to study American Sign Language as  a foreign/second language. Emphasizes developing receptive skills. An introduction to the Deaf culture is  presented  through instruction and activities. 4cr, either sem, Summer I.		

SED DE 571: American Sign Language II
		Continuation of SED DE 570.  Extensive information on Deaf culture is presented through conversation.  4cr, either sem, Summer II.		

