SED ME 507: Student-Teaching Practicum: Mathematics, 5-8
		Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed pre-requisites. Student teaching: a full- time experience in a selected school under joint supervision of a cooperating teacher and a University  representative. Minimum 300 hours. 8cr, 2nd sem. 		

SED ME 508: Student-Teaching Practicum: Mathematics, 8-12
		Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed pre-requisites. Student teaching: a full- time experience in a selected secondary school under joint supervision of a cooperating teacher and a  University representative. Minimum 300 hours required. 8cr, 2nd sem.		

SED ME 509: Student-Teaching Half Practicum: Mathematics, 8-12
		Minimum 150 hours required. Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed pre- requisites. For description, see SED ME 508. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED ME 525: Assessment in Mathematics
	This course introduced pre-service and in-service mathematics teachers to the theory and practice of  assessment in mathematics. This course prepares teachers to apply research-supported assessment  techniques in their classrooms. Discussion about important issues in assessment around mathematics will  be encouraged. 2 cr, 2nd Sem, Summer.		

SED ME 530: Equitable Pedagogies in STEM Education
	This course examines the teaching and learning of mathematics and science in urban schools. Considers  how issues of  race, gender, class, language and culture affect the nature of mathematics and science  education in schools. Successful methodologies and projects for teaching algebra to diverse populations  are explored. 2cr, either sem.		

SED ME 545: Methods of Teaching Mathematics: Elementary
	Introduces strategies, activites, assessment, and materials for teaching mathematical concepts and skills,  grades K-6. Emphasis on how children develop knowledge of unifying ideas of mathematics. 4cr, either  sem.		

SED ME 546: Methods of Teaching Mathematics: Middle School
	Analysis of research on strategies, activities, assessment, and materials  for teaching mathematical concepts and skills, grades 5-8. Focus on structures and models of algebraic  and geometric concepts and applications. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED ME 547: Methods of Teaching Mathematics: High School
	Analysis of research on strategies, activities, and materials for teaching  mathematical concepts and skills, grades 8-12. Concepts from geometry,  higher algebra, probability and statistics, trigonometry, and calculus. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED ME 558: Mathematics Curriculum: Program Issues, Trends
	Analysis of historical, mathematical, and psychological factors influencing  pre-K-12 mathematics curricula. Focuses on national and international standards, research on learning  and teaching with understanding, and integrated curricula. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED ME 559: Mathematics for Teaching: Geometry
	Revisits geometry from an advanced perspective, preparing teachers to teach geometry with  understanding. Topics such as transformations, nonmetric, Euclidean, and non-Euclidean geometries are  explored with a focus on teaching with technology. 4cr, either sem.		

SED ME 560: Mathematics for Teaching: Algebra
	Revisits school algebra from an advanced perspective, with emphasis on multiple representations, making  generalizations, and justifications. Topics include variables, patterns, functions, and linear algebra.  Attention to contemporary issues in curriculum, learning, teaching, technology, and other tools are woven  throughout. 4cr, either sem.		

SED ME 563: Problem Solving in Mathematics
	Explores big ideas in mathematics through solving sets of challenging problems and connects to issues in  teaching and learning. Topics include: research on problem solving, problem design, and implications of a  problem-solving approach in school mathematics. 4cr, 2nd sem. 		

SED ME 589: Designing Professional Development Programs in Mathematics Education
		Students examine models for the professional development of mathematics teachers; conduct needs   assessment of the teachers in their target groups; and design professional development programs that   respond to those needs. Programs focus on upgrading mathematical content knowledge and pedagogical   and assessment practices. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED PE 103: Intro. to Human Movement
	Historical, philosophical, physical, intellectual, and psychosocial reasons for human movement: emotional    expression, ego development, interpersonal relationships, communication, fitness, safety, work, health,    and recreation. 2cr, 1st sem.		

SED PE 211: Movement Education: Early Childhood to Adolescence
	Assists special education and elementary school teachers in the organization, planning, and integrating of  motor activities. Children from the Boston public schools are taught skills in the areas of rhythms,  gymnastics, creative games, and ball activities; movement principles. 2 cr, either sem. Staff On Demand 		

SED PE 250: Community Leadership through Youth Sport Coaching
	This course will enable students to gain an understanding of the roles and responsibilities of the youth   sport coach as well as to develop basic coaching skills through classroom study of coaching theory   combined with practical involvement in a community sport organization. 		

SED PE 375: Psychology of Sport
	Introduction to the field of sport psychology. An overview of theory and practice related to contemporary  issues in the field, including personality and performance, motivation, attention control, leadership styles,  stress/arousal/anxiety, athletic counseling, performance enhancement techniques, and testing and  performance motivation.  4cr, either sem.		

SED PE 502: Mvmt/Phys Activ
	This course description is currently under construction.		

SED PE 505: Foundations of Sport Science
	Overview of essential concepts in the sport sciences, including: exercise, physiology, sport  biomechanics,  principles of strength and endurance training, and sport nutrition. Open to  advanced undergraduate  students and graduate students interested in the sport sciences.  2Â&nbsp;or 3cr, either sem.   		

SED PE 506: Motor Development: Considerations for Planning Movement
	For classroom teachers, special education teachers, and movement specialists. Examines motor     development and methods of adapting physical activities for students who may have physical, cognitive,   social/emotional, learning, and/or sensory disabilities. 4Â&nbsp;cr, 1st sem. 		

