SED PE 513: Practical Applications for PE and HE
	Through a combination of seminar and practicum experiences, students learn and apply current theory and    methods for implementing physical and health education. The focus is on providing students experiences    in observing, planning and implementing effective learning activities and lessons. 4 cr. 1st sem. 		

SED PE 529: The Psychology of Coaching Teams
		This course aims to give students a better understanding of the complex web of psychological factors  that coaches contend with when trying to create a successful team. Central topics include leadership,  group cohesion, collective-efficacy, systems theory, group psychodynamics and team dynamics.  Students study different theories that might explain group and team behavior. As part of their learning  students are required to participate in a group project to experience a team dynamic firsthand. The  course also focuses on understanding how great coaches accomplish their success. An important aspect  of the course is for students to consider the ethical and moral dimensions of coaching in different  contexts. In this discussion we examine the central topics of sportsmanship and character development.  4cr, either sem.		

SED PE 580: Student Teaching Practicum:  Physical Education, Pre-K-8
	Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed prerequisites. For students  seeking  initial licensure in physical education in elementary and middle schools. Students are  placed in schools for  daily school schedule and are supervised jointly by cooperating practitioners  and University personnel.  Minimum 300 hours required.  8Â&nbsp;cr, either sem.		

SED PE 581: Student Teaching Half Practicum:  Physical Education, Pre-K-8
	Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed prerequisites. For students  seeking  current initial licensure in physical education, i.e., Pre-K-8 and 5-12. Course supplements  SED PE 582.  Students are placed in schools for the daily school schedule and are supervised  jointly by cooperating  practitioners and University personnel. Minimum 150 hours required.   4Â&nbsp;cr, either sem.		

SED PE 582: Student Teaching Practicum:  Physical Education 5-12
	Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed prerequisites. For students  seeking  initial licensure in physical education in middle, junior, and senior high schools. Students  are placed in  schools for daily school schedule and are supervised jointly by cooperating  practitioners and University  personnel. Minimum 300 hours required.  8Â&nbsp;cr, either sem.		

SED PE 583: Student Teaching Half Practicum:  Physical Education, 5-12
	Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed prerequisites. For students  seeking  current initial licensure in physical education, i.e., 5-12. This course is needed in addition  to SED PE 580.  Students are placed in schools for the daily school schedule and are supervised  jointly by cooperating  practitioners and University personnel. Minimum 150 hours required.  4Â&nbsp;cr, either sem.		

SED PE 584: Half Prac:5-12
			

SED PE 591: Coaching Practica
	These courses are designed to assist students in preparing for their practical experiences coaching.  Through discussion of readings, reflection and written work, students help each other, with the assistance  of the instructor, to solve problems related to experiences at the practicum sites. 2cr, either sem.		

SED PE 592: Coaching Practica
	These courses are designed to assist students in preparing for their practical experiences coaching.  Through discussion of readings, reflection and written work, students help each other, with the assistance  of the instructor, to solve problems related to experiences at the practicum sites. 2cr, either sem.		

SED PE 705: Analysis of Teaching Movement
	Teaching human movement activities in the context of innovative techniques, current humanizing   influences, shared decision-making principles, and psychosocial influences in general motor  learning.  Converts basic physical educational theories and current research into classroom,  gymnasium, and playing  field practices.  4Â&nbsp;cr, 2nd sem. 		

SED PE 710: Sport Theory and Social Systems
	Relationship of sport and cultural dynamics, sociogenic factors underlying competitive physical  activity,  and the behavioral responses of sport participants to various sociocultural motivations.  Role of sport in  past and current societies.  4Â&nbsp;cr, 1st sem.  		

SED PE 720: Seminar in Kinesiology
	Application of muscular analysis to motor functions. Integration of structural, functional,  biomechanical,   developmental, and psychological components within physical activities. Focus on  the mechanism of   movement through laboratory analysis. 2cr, 1st sem.		

SED QT 999: Quito SED Prog
			

SED RS 600: Introduction to Research
	This course introduces students to the skills and methods used in conducting research and in  establishing the criteria for identifying research-based practice, interventions and curriculum in  education settings. Students will become familiar with quantitative, mixed method, and action research  approached to inquiry. Students will develop skills in conducting literature searched, examining  empirical research studies and learning how to apply these methods to answer questions that are  relevant to their graduate program area. Students should leave this course better consumers of research  findings presented in the mass media, able to critically read primary research articles and able to  participate in research-based efforts to improve education.  4cr, either sem.		

SED RS 652: Qualitative Research Methods
	The historical and theoretical bases and the techniques for conducting qualitative research. Analysis of the  questions for which qualitative research is best suited and how it differs from quantitative research.  Consideration of ethical issues in qualitative research. Students critique published research and engage in  planning a study, gaining entry, collecting and analyzing data, and presenting the findings. 4cr, either sem.		

SED RS 653: Quantitative Research Methods
	Conceptualization of quantitative research problems. Study descriptive  and inferential statistics most commonly used for analyzing data in  educational research including t-tests, ANOVAs, multiple comparisons,  correlation, regression, and chi square. Emphasis placed on  interpretation. Research project requires identifying a problem, gathering  and analyzing data, and writing the results in APA format. 4cr, either sem.		

SED RS 654: Educational Inquiry and Proposal Writing
	Required of all doctoral students. Open only to matriculated doctoral students who have completed the  prerequisites. Overview of foundational questions related to what is important and knowable about  educational matters (including issues of objectivity and subjectivity) and how different empirical  methods of inquiry respond to such questions. Topics include: standards of believability,  persuasiveness, and utility in different kinds of inquiry and the relationships among theoretical,  quantitative and qualitative methods in the cycle of scientific discovery. Emphasis is on formulating  significant research questions, clarifying important concepts for research, and preparing sound research  proposals. 4cr, either sem.		

SED RS 699: Research Apprenticeship
	Collaboration with a faculty member on funded or unfunded research. Particular focus will depend on the  stage of design or implementation of the particular study, and may include formulation and refinement or  research questions, design of the methodological plan, data collection, analysis, interpretation, and report  of findings. Variable cr, either sem.		

SED RS 750: Advanced Research Seminar
		For doctoral students who have already clarified their research interests and are ready to work on their  dissertation proposals. Provides direction on substantive and procedural issues in the design  and conduct of research. Requires students to present drafts of their  dissertation proposals for critique in seminar format and to contribute to the  constructive criticism of proposals presented by fellow classmates. 4cr, 1st sem. Includes pilot study.		

SED RS 751: Program Evaluation
		Alternative approaches to evaluation; consideration of stakeholders; specification of multiple outcomes;  program monitoring; formative and summative designs; practical guidelines for planning, conducting,  reporting, and using evaluations; role of the evaluator; necessary skills; political, ethical, and interpersonal  aspects. Applicable to curricular interventions, training programs, social action projects, social policies.  Case studies and student proposals are critiqued in seminar. Requires some pilot testing. 4cr, 1st sem.		

