SED SO 933: Doc Sem Hist Ed
			

SED SO 935: Advanced Doctoral Seminar in Civic Education and Engagement
	Study of the historical, philosophical, theoretical, and curricular foundations of civic education/education  for democracy. Open to doctoral students, CAGS students, and (with permission) upper-level master's  students intending to pursue doctoral study in history/social studies education. 4cr. alt fall semesters or  by arrangement.		

SED TL 508: Methods of Teaching English as a Second Language (ESL), 5-12
	Teaching methodologies for English as a Second Language at the middle- and high-school levels,  including techniques for developing language skills, content-based language teaching, evaluation and  adaption of materials, planning and assessment. Students participate in a field-based component. 4cr, 1st  sem.		

SED TL 509: Fnds Tesol Ped
	This course description is currently under construction.		

SED TL 511: Methods of Teaching Modern Foreign Languages
		Teaching methodologies for modern foreign language, including techniques for developing language   skills, communicative grammar teaching, evaluation and adaptation of material, planning and curriculum   development, and assessment. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED TL 512: Introduction to Computer-Assisted Language Learning (CALL)
	This course will survey current classroom practices in computer-assisted language learning (CALL),   examine the pedagogical rationale, and give students hands-on practice creating and delivering   computer-based lessons.  Selection, evaluation, and integration of software and online resources will also   be covered. 4cr. 1st sem.		

SED TL 520: Teaching English Language Learners
	Focus on current theory/research related to teaching English language learners and the implications for  effective language, literacy, and content-area assessment and instructional practices in sheltered English  immersion classrooms. Planned for students seeking licensure in Early Childhood, Elementary and Special  Education. 4cr, either sem.		

SED TL 525: Teaching English Language Learners in Middle/High Schools
	Focus on current theory/research related to teaching English language learners and the implications for  effective language, literacy, and content-area assessment and instructional practices in sheltered English  immersion classrooms in middle/high schools. Planned for students seeking licensure in the content areas  at the 5-12 level. 4cr, either sem.		

SED TL 581: Student-Teaching Practicum II: TESOL, Pre-K-6
		Supervised student teaching. Minimum of 150 hours required. Open only to matriculated students who   have completed prerequisites. 2cr, 2nd sem.		

SED TL 582: Student-Teaching Practicum I: ESL, 5-12
		Supervised student teaching. Minimum of 150 hours required. Open only to matriculated students who  have completed prerequisites. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED TL 583: Student-Teaching Practicum II: ESL, 5-12
		Supervised student teaching. Minimum of 150 hours required. Open only to matriculated students who  have completed prerequisites. Can be taken only in conjunction with a Practicum I course. 2cr, 2nd sem.		

SED TL 586: Student-Teaching Practicum I: Modern Foreign Languages, 5-12
		Minimum of 150 hours required. Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed  prerequisites. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED TL 587: Student-Teaching Practicum II: Modern Foreign Languages, 5-12
		Minimum of 150 hours required. Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed  prerequisites. Can be taken only in conjunction with a Practicum I course. 2cr, 2nd sem.		

SED TL 588: Internship/Apprenticeship in Modern Foreign Languages
		Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed prerequisites. Supervised field  experience for students holding professional appointments. Must meet field-of-knowledge requirements  and professional preparation that are equivalent to licensure sequence. Sections indicate grade levels of  certification (Pre-K-8 or 5-12). Variable cr, 2nd sem.		

SED TL 589: Internship/Apprenticeship in TESOL
		Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed prerequisites. Supervised field  experience for students holding professional appointments. Must meet field-of-knowledge and  professional preparation that are equivalent to certification sequence. Sections indicate grade levels of  licensure (Pre-K-8, or 5-12). Variable cr, 2nd sem.		

SED TL 612: Std Tch Dom Std
		This course description is currently under construction.		

SED TL 614: Fldexp Intl Std
	This course description is currently under construction.		

SED TL 635: Introduction to Language Program Management
	This course is designed to introduce students to all aspects of language program management from   academic areas of curriculum planning, student assessment, and program design to the management   topics of finance, organizational behavior, and human resources. 4cr, second sem.		

SED TL 835: Adv Sem Tesol
		This course description is currently under construction.		

