SED CE 740: Ethics and Professional Responsibilities
	The purpose of this course is to introduce students to the role of ethics in the practice of counseling in  both theoretical and practical terms. The course will address the matters such as how counselors make  ethical decisions; identifying actual ethical dilemmas, as well as articulating the ethical principles  underlying  particular conflicts; identifying the relevant ethics code; and how best to determine a course of  action. 3  cr. 1st semester		

SED CE 741: Cross-Cultural Perspectives
	An historical, philosophical, and clinical examination of subcultural considerations in counseling  psychology professional practice and  inquiry. Required for all school and community counseling students.  4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED CE 746: Clinical Practice
	Orientation to diagnosis, counseling procedures, policies, and  consultation and the professional ethics  of the field. Approved counseling students are assigned to a  2-semester field placement, where much  of their learning is based.  Students typically have the opportunity to work with clients on an individual   and group basis, under dual supervision. Six hundred total hours of field experience are required by the   school and community counseling programs; 400 total hours are required by the sport psychology   program. The practicum must be undertaken in consecutive fall and spring semesters of the same   academic year. Required for approved counseling interns. Registration restricted to matriculated   master's and CAGS students in counseling. 4cr, both sem. 		

SED CE 820: Comprehensive Project
	The Comprehensive Project is a requirement for all School or Community Track Counseling students, to be  completed in their final semester of study. Under the direction of their advisor, students will develop and  execute a research project, complete a comprehensive literature review, or develop and initiate an  intervention, program, or curriculum. 3cr, 1st sem.		

SED CE 826: Intellectual and Behavioral Assessment (Child)
	An applied/practical review of various forms of clinical child/family assessments including: structured and  unstructured clinical interviewing; cognitive and achievement testing; behavioral and observational  techniques; and visual-motor tasks; and assessments specifically designed to target symptoms of  particular psychological disorders. 2cr, Alt. years		

SED CE 840: Family Systems and Family Therapy
	Introductory course that includes comprehensive overview of the field.  Covers the family in historical and sociological perspectives, family  structure and process, schools of family therapy, and issues beyond  conjoint family therapy. Readings, lectures, discussions, and  demonstrations, with audiovisual materials. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED CE 846: Clinical Practice
		Open only to matriculated counseling student with permission of instructor.  Minimum 600 hours of clinical experience is required for current  professional licensure in Massachusetts. Supervised field experience in  schools, guidance clinics, or community agencies. Work with a caseload  under supervision; increasing responsibility for counseling, testing,  placement, and follow-up of counselees. Conference time arranged.  Variable cr, either sem.		

SED CE 847: Theories of Group Counseling
	A conceptual and experiential introduction to group dynamics. Participation in ongoing training group  while studying the dynamics of group development. Covers group counseling approaches and models,  issues of small group leadership, and styles of leadership. Treatment of group counseling goals,  composition, phases, and research. 4cr, 2nd sem, Summer Term.		

SED CE 853: Proseminar on Counseling Health Psychology
	Critical reviews of contemporary counseling psychology research topics and methods in the field of health  psychology. Issues of equality and social justice, and multiculturalism will be explored in relation to health  and wellness promotion and outcomes. 2cr, either sem.		

SED CE 856: Seminar: Counseling Psychology
	Introduction to professional psychology, its history and standards. Current status and directions in  counseling psychology. Ethical principles and behavior. 1cr, either sem.		

SED CE 946: Advanced Practicum
		Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed  prerequisites. Supervised field experience with students assuming major  responsibility for counseling, testing, placement, and follow-up of clients. 3-4cr, either sem.		

SED CE 948: Supervision in Counseling
	Examination of supervision of counseling in theory, process, and practice. Assumption of direct  supervisory responsibility. Permission of the instructor required. 2-4cr, either sem.		

SED CH 300: Methods of Instruction: Elementary 1-6
	Develops competency in reading and language arts, history and social studies education, science  education; general teaching strategies; basic elements of curriculum design; institutional policies and  practices of elementary education. Develops competency in providing effective instruction across the  curriculum to culturally and linguistically diverse learners.  Includes application of these competencies in  field settings.  Stamped approval and a qualifying score on the Boston University School of Education  Literacy Test are required. 10cr, either sem.		

SED CH 515: Curriculum Methods, 1-6
		Examines theories of and develops specific competencies in reading and language arts, social studies  education, and science education; general teaching strategies; basic elements of curriculum design; and  institutional policies and practices of elementary education. Application of these competencies in field  settings. 10cr, 1st sem.		

SED CH 553: Erly Chld St/Tc
			

SED CH 555: Student-Teaching Practicum: Elementary 1-6
	Required of all students seeking licensure as elementary teachers.  Open only to degree candidates who  have completed prerequisites.  Supervised student teaching in a classtroom for grades 1-6.  Includes  curriculum development, methods of instruction, and evaluation of the learner. 10cr.		

SED CH 655: Student-Teaching Practicum: Elementary 1-6
		Supervised student-teaching in a classroom for grades 1-6. Includes curriculum development,  direct  instruction, and evaluation of the learner. Open only to matriculated graduate students who  have  completed prerequisites and have passed the School of Education Literacy Test.  Implementation of  educational learning standards of the Massachusetts Curriculum Frameworks. 8cr,  2nd sem.		

SED CL 520: Methods of Teaching Latin and Classical Studies, 5-12
	Reviews traditional and recent curriculum materials in Latin and classics  education at the middle and senior high school levels. Analyzes curricular  goals for grades 5-12. Develops new instructional materials and  classroom techniques for classics teachers. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED CL 540: Student-Teaching Practicum: Latin and Classical Studies, 5-12
		Student-teaching under the joint supervision of a cooperating practitioner  and a University supervisor. Minimum 300 hours required for initial  licensure, 8 cr; for those also enrolling in SED CL 700, minimum of 150  hours required. Open only to matriculated graduate students who have  completed prerequisites. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED CT 375: Preprac Sec Sch
			

