SED LR 551: Reading Development, Assessment, and Instruction in the Elementary School
	For beginning graduate students without experience in the teaching of reading. Study of reading   development in childhood and early adolescence, and the implications for teaching and learning.   Discussion of theory and research on effective instruction and assessment, and the application of  both to  teaching. 4Â&nbsp;cr, either sem. Not open to students who have completed SED LR 501 and/or  LR 503. 4cr,  either sem.		

SED LR 782: History of Reading Research
	Analysis and synthesis of the classic and contemporary research literature on reading with a  focus of the  historical trends in methodology, understanding the theoretical processes, and the state of the art  instructional practices over time. Exploration of the implications for teaching and learning, and for future  research. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED LS 560: Introduction to Language and Language Acquisition
	Introduction to the main aspects of language and language acquisition in typical, atypical, and second  language learners. Topic areas include phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics, pragmatics, child- directed speech, the role of cognitive development, and theories of language acquisition. Students will  apply this course material during weekly observations of a language learner. 4cr, each sem.		

SED LS 565: Introduction to Language and Linguistics
	An introduction to contemporary linguistics, including phonological and syntactical theory, sociolinguistics, first- and second-language acquisition, and discourse theory. Also covers applications of various branches of linguistics to education, including issues of different cultures in the classroom, the role of language in education, and the development of literacy.		

SED LS 595: Child Second Language Acquisitions
	This course explores issues and theories in child second language acquisition in a second or foreign  classroom context. It's designed to meet the needs of those intending to teach second (or foreign)  languages to children in the US or overseas.		

SED LS 626: Cross Cult Comm
	This course description is currently under construction.		

SED LS 627: Critical Analysis of Children's and Young Adult Literature
	Overview of children's and young adult literature, including introduction to authors, illustrators, and  literary genres, and exploration and discussion of distinctive portrayals (e.g., genders, cultures,  ethnicities, religions). The course is intended to develop overall knowledge of texts, awareness and  understanding of critical issues that surround children's and young adult literature, and an  understanding of how to evaluate and select texts for use in and out of school settings. This course  requires substantial reading of selected children's and young adult literature. 4cr. 2nd sem.		

SED LS 658: Second Language Acquisition
	Research and theories of second-language acquisition. Includes the  research on naturalistic and classroom second-language learning. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED LS 690: Context for Literacy: Oral and Written Discourse
	Introduces students to a variety of issues and perspectives that characterize approaches to the study of  literature, language, and culture. Students develop knowledge and understanding of current approaches to  the study of discourse as a developmental and sociological phenomenon and as part of school-based  learning. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED LS 734: The Roles and Responsibilities of the Literacy Specialist: Leadership, Coaching, Teaching (Prepracticum)
	Observation of a literacy specialist with attention to how the literacy specialist acts as a school-wide  leader, coaches teachers, and provides literacy instruction to children. Course readings and discussions  examine the multiple roles of a literacy specialist. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED LS 735: Teaching Struggling Readers and Writers in the Elementary School
	Examination of theory and research that guides instruction of struggling readers and writers in K-6     classrooms. Includes study of the effects of various grouping practices, types of texts, and instructional     strategies and routines. 4cr. 2nd sem.		

SED LS 750: Cognitive Development and Language
	Various philosophical and research positions exist concerning the  relation between cognition and language, including cognitive  interactionism (Piaget), social interactionism (Vygotsky), innateness  (Chomsky), linguistic relativity (Whorf), information processing  (MacWhinney), and theory (Gopnick). These positions are discussed,  compared, and assessed in light of research findings bearing on different  topics (e.g., word learning, theory of mind). Students are able to apply  course material to a related topic of their choice. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED LS 790: Seminar in Literacy Assessment: Research/Theory/Practice
	Intra/interdisciplinary review of theory and research related to literacy and  language. Exploration of implications for assessment in instructional and  service settings. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED LS 792: Teaching Adolescent Literacy
	Exploration of current theory and research regarding reading and writing processes and practices among  adolescents in and out of school. Particular attention will be given to the integration of literacy instruction  within content disciplines and the relevance of out-of-school literacies to in-school instruction. 4cr, 1st  sem. 		

SED LW 736: Teaching Writing in Elementary, Middle, and Secondary Schools
	Study of research and theory that informs an understanding of the writing process, the  development of  writing abilities, and writing instruction and assessment.  Application of the  literature to classroom  practice at the elementary, middle and secondary school levels. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED LW 781: Processes of Writing
	Investigation of the theory and research related to writing.  Exploration of implications for  assessment,  instructional design, and educational planning. 4cr, 1st sem, alternate years		

SED ME 360: Mathematics for Teaching: Algebra
	Revisits school algebra from an advanced perspective, with emphasis on multiple representations, making  generalizations, and justifications. Topics include variables, patterns, functions, and linear algebra.  Attention to contemporary issues in curriculum, learning, teaching, technology, and other tools are woven  throughout. 4cr, either sem.		

SED ME 503: Mathematical Reasoning in the Elementary Grades: Number Systems
	This four-credit course is a prerequisite for ME 504. It is required for graduate students majoring in   elementary education who are preparing to become teachers of children in kindergarten through grade   five. This course focuses on topics in number systems and operations with an emphasis on number,   operations, mental mathematics, proportionality, number theory, and probability. Students explore the   mathematics from the perspective of a student and a teacher. The emphasis is on making sense of key   ideas of number and operations and on exploring how students? understanding of these topics emerge   and develop. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED ME 504: Mathematical Reasoning in the Elementary Grades: Algebra, Geometry, &amp; Statistics
		This course is required for graduate students majoring in elementary education who are preparing to  become teachers of children in kindergarten through grade five. This course focuses on topics in algebra,  geometry, measurement and statistics. Students explore mathematics form the perspective of student and  teacher. The emphasis is on making sense of key ideas in algebra and geometry and on exploring how  student's understanding of these topics emerge and develop. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED ME 506: Student-Teaching Half Practicum: Mathematics, 5-8
		Minimum 150 hours required, Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed pre- requisites. For description, see SED ME507. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

