SED RS 752: Seminar in Qualitative Research
	Designed for advanced doctoral students who are analyzing and/or interpreting qualitative data to work  with other students under the direction of a faculty member. Students in the course will give presentations  of their ongoing work, which will be subject to feedback form the entire semester. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SC 375: Exploring Science Teaching: A Practical Experience
	Students will explore science teaching through observation of secondary school science classrooms and,  where possible, through participation in the classroom instruction. Readings discussed in seminar will  prepare students to interact in the classroom and to prepare lesson plans. 2cr. either sem.		

SED SC 507: Student-Teaching Half Practicum: Science, 5-8
		Minimum 150 hours required. Open only to matriculated graduate students who have completed  prerequisites. For description, see SED SC 509. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SC 509: Student-Teaching Practicum: Science, 5-8
		Student teaching: a full-time experience in a selected school under joint supervision of a cooperating  practitioner and a University representative. Minimum 300 hours required. 8cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SC 510: Student-Teaching Practicum: Science, 8-12
		Student teaching: a full-time experience in a selected secondary school under joint supervision of a  cooperating practitioner and a University representative. Minimum 300 hours required. 8cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SC 521: Introduction to STEM Education Theory and Practice
	This course provides an introduction to modern learning theory emphasizing inquiry learning in the   classroom for science, engineering and mathematics. 2cr, either sem.		

SED SC 539: Explaining Science: a Philosophical Perspective
	An analysis of science from a philosophical and historial perspective.  What distinguishes scientific knowing? What vision has science given us  of the universe and humanity's place within it? And how can answers to  such questions inform the presentation of science to students and other non-scientists? 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SC 570: Sci Teach Meth
			

SED SC 572: Science Methods II: Teaching in the Science Disciplines
	This course emphasizes the practical applications of instructional strategies and teaching skills presented  in science methods I. It emphasizes the pedagogical content knowledge in the respective disciplines as  they are being practiced in the student teaching practicum. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SC 576: Science Teaching Pre-Practicum
	Pre-service teachers will participate in a pre-practicum experience in local schools where they will have  the opportunity to study and practice science teaching methods addressed in SC570: Science Teaching  Methods.		

SED SC 595: Laboratory Learning in Life Sciences
	Course integrated academic content in basic biology, with instruction in how to learn in laboratory  settings, includes analysis preparation, adjusting to variations in experiments, devising suitable pedagogy,  and on-suite instructional strategies. Emphasizes student's reflective inquiry. 2cr, either sem.		

SED SD 999: Sydney SED Prog
			

SED SE 250: Disability, Education, and Public Policy
	Relationships of disability to individual, educational, social, legal, and family structures and processes.  Overview of educational structures, processes, and collaboration of regular and special education. Issues of  social class, equity, discrimination, institutionalization, and normalization. Family-agency relationships.  4cr, either sem.		

SED SE 251: Special Education and Adolescents
	Educational needs, practices, regulations, and issues in educating adolescents with identified special  educational needs. This course is designed for teachers in middle and high school. Emphasis is placed on  collaboration with special educators. 2cr, either sem.		

SED SE 315: Field Experience: Special Education: Severe Disabilities
	Designed to provide opportunities for observation and participation with students having disabilities and  enrolled in special education programs. 2cr, either sem.		

SED SE 316: Field Work in Special Education: Severe Disabilities
	A second fieldwork course is designed to provide opportunities for undergraduate students for observation  and  participation with students having severe  disabilities and enrolled in special education programs. 2cr,  either sem.		

SED SE 401: Special Education: Cognition and Learning
	Not open to students who have taken either SED SE 501 or SE 503. An examination of special education  populations through selected topics of learning, cognition, and development. The emphasis will be on  persons with "cognitive problems", including groups identified as having learning disabilities, intellectual  impairments, and developmental disabilities. 4cr, 1st sem.		

SED SE 480: Teaching Students with Special Needs
           			Focuses on methods for teaching students with special needs, including informal assessment, instructional  planning, curriculum evaluation and modification, and classroom organization and management. 4cr, 2nd  sem.		

SED SE 493: Practicum in Disabilities Studies
	Students are involved in practicum experiences in human services agencies serving individuals with  disabilities. Concurrent seminars discuss the nature and processes of service provision, roles and  responsibilities, and collaboration. Students work for a minimum of 150 hours in agency for 4cr, and 300  hours for 8cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SE 500: Directed Study
	For description, see SED AP 500.		

