SED SE 502: Behavioral and Emotional Problems: Characteristics and Methods
	Behavior disorders of children and youths in educational, clinical, and social settings. Development and  implementation of strategies for children and youths with emotional and behavioral problems. Parent  counseling, precision teaching and other strategies. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SE 504: An Introduction to Early Childhood Disabilities
	Introduction to etiology, history, service delivery models, and issues and trends relating to young children  with needs and individuals of all ages with disabilities. 2cr, 1st sem.		

SED SE 505: An Introduction to Severe Disabilities
	Introduction to etiology, history, service delivery models, and issues and trends related to individuals with  severe disabilities. 2cr, 1st sem.		

SED SE 507: Early Childhood Disabilities/Severe Disabilities: Assessment and Instructional Planning
		Planning, implementation, and evaluation of education programs for  individuals with early childhood disabilities and severe disabilities. Includes instructional goal setting,  assessment, implementation strategies, and methods for evaluating instructional effectiveness. 4cr, 1st  sem.		

SED SE 508: Early Childhood Disabilities/Sever Disabilities: Curriculum and Methods
		Content and methods for teaching young children with special needs and  students of all ages with severe handicapping conditions. Includes  strategies for facilitating development in motor, communication, social,  pre-academic, self-care, vocational, and recreational domains. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SE 510: Special Education: Curriculum and Instruction
	Principles of curriculum and instruction for students with disabilities  educated in regular classroom settings. Studies in typical and atypical  human development. Introduction to resources appropriate to the  instruction of children with special needs. 2cr, either sem, Summer 1		

SED SE 515: Assessment in Special Education: Procedures
           			Examines assessment practices, both alternative assessment and standardized test instruments; it will   address non-literacy areas of assessment. It is expected that students will take a parallel reading   assessment course. 2cr, either sem.		

SED SE 533: The Families of Children with Special Needs
	Introductory survey of family personal issues, communicative processes,  and school/agency relationships. Topics include sibling relationships and extended  family patterns a survey of parent counseling and training approaches, single  parenting, and the adoption of handicapped children. Emphasizes transcultural concerns and  psychoeducational case-studies. 4cr, 1st sem.  		

SED SE 534: Classroom and Behavior Management
	Theoretical bases and implementation strategies of effective classroom  and behavior management for  students with and without disabilities in  elementary school settings., The focus of the course will be on  individual,  classroom, and schoolwide approaches in schools today. 2cr, either sem.		

SED SE 535: Understd Autism
			

SED SE 580: Methods and Materials in Special Education: General
		Strategies, methods, materials, and curricula for students with special  needs. Educational approaches  emphasizing individual educational  programs. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SE 584: Methods and Materials: Moderate Disabilities, 5-12
	Methods and materials relevant to the instruction of secondary-level  students with disabilities. Topics include: legislation and litigation, basic  instructional modifications, transition and career education, instruction in  specific content areas, state competency frameworks, and critical issues. 2cr, 2nd sem.		

SED SE 590: Learning and the Brain
	By conjoining the lectures offered in the "Learning and the Brain" conference with seminar class time, this  course offers students an opportunity to explore various topics in brain research as well as consider these  issues in the context of classroom activities		

SED SE 593: Practicum/Practicum Equivalent:Students with Moderate Disabilities, Pre-K-8
		Student-teaching experience with students in integrated classrooms or special classes. Seminar in  classroom practices. Minimum 300 hours. 8cr, either sem.		

SED SE 594: Practicum/Practicum Equivalent: Students with Moderate Disabilities, 5-12
		Student-teaching experience with children in integrated classrooms or special classes. Seminar in  classroom practices. Minimum 300 hours. 8cr, either sem.		

SED SE 595: Practicum/Practicum Equivalent: Student with Severe Disabilities, Pre-K-12
		Student-teaching experience in schools, day and residential settings. Seminar in classroom practices.  Minimum 300 hours. 8cr, either sem.		

SED SE 598: Half Practicum: Students with Moderate Disabilities, Pre-K-8
	Student teaching experience open only to students doing "combined" elementary/moderate disabilities  licensure programs. Having successfully completed a minimum of 300 hours in an inclusive elementary  placement, students will complete an additional 150 hours in an inclusive general education setting  focusing on students with moderate disabilities. 4cr, eitehr sem.		

SED SE 613: Field Work in Special Education: Moderate Disabilities
	Designed to provide opportunities for observation and participation  with students having moderate  disabilities and enrolled in special education programs. 2cr, either sem.		

SED SE 615: Fieldwork in Special Education: Severe Disabilities
	 Designed to provide opportunities for observation and participation  with students having severe   disabilities and enrolled in special education programs. 2cr, either sem.		

SED SE 650: Children at Risk
	Advances knowledge of theories, research, and practice about children and adolescents whose physical and  psychological well being is at risk. Course literature will be drawn from research and theory on normal  child and adolescent development, as well as from work on disorders in children and adolescents.  Topics  include: poverty, substance abuse, the institutionalization of children, adoption, mental illness, school  dropouts, physical and emotional abuse, domestic violence, and children will special needs. 4cr, 2nd sem.		

