COM JO 718: Magazine Workshop
		This final magazine writing course is designed to create a published magazine as a writing portfolio for students. This is a studio course, taught by two professors, which covers writing and design in a setting that captures the dynamics of professional practice. Students within each group, assume professional positions and conceptualize, write, edit, design, and publish magazines. Magazines are designed and published using QuarkXPress and Adobe Photoshop. Design concepts and techniques, along with computer programs used in this course, are taught with step by step instructions. 4 cr 2nd sem		

COM JO 719: Feature Writing
		Writing feature articles for newspapers, magazines and other media. Covers markets open to free-lance writers, published articles, newspaper feature sections, and Sunday supplements. 		

COM JO 721: Journalism Principles and Techniques
	Required. Students acquire techniques of newswriting and reporting by covering a full range of news stories in a laboratory situation. Stress on deadline pressure, writing, and reporting. Includes weekly seminar on journalism principles as illustrated by current events and controversies. 		

COM JO 722: Advanced Journalism Seminar
		Required. Newswriting and reporting in Boston and surrounding communities. Students cover working beats.		

COM JO 723: Science Newswriting I
	Students develop experience in writing about science, technology, and medicine for the consumer press. At instructor's option, students may write scripts for broadcast and/or articles for publication in scientific, professional, or business magazines and periodicals. 		

COM JO 724: Science in the Crosshairs
	This course guides students toward writing short, pithy features and reports on  issues of scientific controversy, introducing students to the technical basics  of short form narrative, while also taking a hard look at a number of scientific  issues.  Also a refresher unit on statistics and one on the politics of  scientific journals.  The focus will be on learning to think, report, research  and write as a journalist while at the same time building a sound understanding  of some of the most critical issues of our day.  Students will be expected to  produce four pieces of writing- ranging from brief expository pieces to a fully  formed profile.		

COM JO 727: Special Studies
			

COM JO 732: Conflict and Commentary in Science Reporting
	A course in writing about science policy issues, including in-depth coverage of  controversial issues and writing scientific-related essay, such as those that  appear in Slate and Salon.  classroom discussions will involve complex areas of  science reporting, including scientific fraud and business issues related to  science.		

COM JO 733: Enterprise Reporting
	Students will produce in depth video reports similar to what is seen on network  TV news magazine programs, news web sites or local television series.  Review of  job trends in the industry and how to produce a resume/reel website.		

COM JO 734: Broadcast Journalism I: Television News Production
	Introduction to basic techniques of video news, with emphasis on function of the  writer. Includes on-air techniques, editing, and feature and documentary planning  and production. 		

COM JO 735: Professional Project
	Required of all graduate broadcast concentrators.  Production of a broadcast- ready portfolio project demonstrating strong writing, research and multimedia  skills.  Students choose a news topic to report, whether in the form of a video  or radio documentary, a  multimedia website, a series of video or radio reports  or a multimedia app.  Individual faculty members supervise this capstone project  during the course of the semester.		

COM JO 736: TV News Magazine
		Students produce, anchor, and report a single-topic news magazine program,  broadcast on deadline.  Students advance their anchoring skills by preparing a  half-hour program featuring video and live reports.		

COM JO 737: Journalism Internship
	Required broadcast, print, magazine, online or photo internship under supervision  of faculty.		

COM JO 738: Business &amp; Economics Internship
	Required internship under supervision of faculty.		

COM JO 754: Science Journalism Internship
	To be taken during the summer between second and third semesters of the program  and then registered during the third semester.		

COM JO 807: Advanced Journalism Research
	A rigorous grounding in research and investigative methods from interviews and records searching to computer-assisted reporting and use of the Freedom of Information Act.		

COM JO 881: Science video Production
	The moving image carries enormous power; whether shown in theaters, on  television, on the internet or on our smart phones, video has the ability to  change the world, as has been demonstrated time and again. this course is  designed to examine the power of non-fiction video through the deconstruction of  various films and videos, and serve as an introduction to video production  through a series of production exercises culminating in a complete short film as  a final project.  While this course focuses on science, it will be useful for  anyone interested in learning more about non-fiction video production.		

COM JO 954: Directed Study: Broadcast Journalism
		Faculty and students work together in a tutorial situation to produce a project of  mutual interest.		

COM JO 955: Directed Study: General &amp; Online Journalism
		Faculty and students work together in a tutorial situation to produce a project of  mutual interest.		

