COM JO 100: Introduction to Journalism
	This course is a basic introduction to the field of journalism. It will acquaint students from COM and across the university to the journalism profession from a practitioner's perspective. 2 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 250: Fundamentals of Journalism
           			Required of journalism majors.  The goal is for students to acquire fundamental newsgathering and writing skills needed to thrive as a journalist working in any medium. The course is based in the classroom, but students are expected to learn and adhere to professional newsroom standards. The course focuses on essential practices and principles that apply to reporters, photographers, bloggers, producers and editors at newspapers, magazines, radio, television and online media. The class emphasizes news judgment, storytelling and reporting skills as well as writing clearly and quickly. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 301: Editorial Design
	This is a studio course where students learn to design for print. Students will design a newsletter and sample pages for a magazine on topics of their own choosing. Students will learn and design with QuarkXPress, Adobe Photoshop, and Adobe Illustrator. This course covers the principles of typography, composition, and visual language and encourages creative/innovative ideas. All projects will be portfolio pieces. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 303: Visual Journalism
	Required of journalism majors. An introductory course designed to provide  students with a basic working knowledge of the media required for professional  journalism, including photography, sound, video, and editing for production of  multimedia packages.  No previous experience in visual media is required.  		

COM JO 304: Online Journalism
           			Required of journalism majors. This course introduces students to reporting, writing and creating multimedia journalism for the web. Students will view and critique news web site and learn how to create stories using a variety mediums. They will learn which elements -- text, stills, audio, video, and interactive graphics -- are best for delivering a story and engaging an online news audience. Students will learn the basics of the tools needed to create multimedia journalism packages and practice using them to report news online. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 305: Basic Photography for non majors
	Students learn the fundamentals of 35mm digital photography from the basics of  image capture to processing finished photographs.  No previous experience in  photography is required.  4 cr., either sem.  		

COM JO 309: Feature Writing
           			Writing feature articles for newspapers. Covers markets open to free-lance writers, published articles, newspaper feature sections, and Sunday supplements. 		

COM JO 310: Beat Reporting
           			Students learn to cover a city neighborhood or a nearby community bear. Students will branch out across the city and suburbs to cover courts, crime, education, local and state politics, and other essentials of community reporting. Students will be encouraged to develop their own sources and story ideas with the goal of professional publication in the Boston University News Service. Students produce stories, photos, audio and video for the Web. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 312: Photojournalism I
           			An introductory course for students interested in pursuing a career in photojournalism and visual reporting.  Students photograph assignments to the standards of professional news outlets and advance their skills in digital photography for use on websites and in publications.  4 cr., either sem.  		

COM JO 351: Reporting with Audio and Video
           			Introductory writing and reporting for television, the Internet and radio using digital video cameras, audio recorders, editing suites as well as the computer editing and the news writing software used in professional television and radio newsrooms. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 357: History and Principles of Journalism
	This course surveys the evolution of the American news media, beginning with newspapers in 1704 and continuing through the coming of the Internet and the Digital Revolution now sweeping through journalism. Students examine press freedom, censorship, changing definitions of news, and changes in the business model underlying journalism. Based on that history, we also examine the enduring values and principles of journalism in the U.S. and consider emerging business models. 4 cr, either sem.   		

COM JO 403: Magazine Writing and Editing
           			Students learn to research, write, and edit lengthy articles of national magazine quality. 		

COM JO 408: Magazine Workshop
           			This final magazine writing course is designed to create a published magazine as a writing portfolio for students. This is a studio course, taught by two professors, which covers writing and design in a setting that captures the dynamics of professional practice. Students within each group, assume professional positions and conceptualize, write, edit, design, and publish magazines. Magazines are designed and published using QuarkXPress and Adobe Photoshop. Design concepts and techniques, along with computer programs used in this course, are taught with step by step instructions.  4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 410: Advanced Photography for Nonmajors
		A course for students outside of the photojournalism major who are interested in acquiring and advancing the skills required of present day journalists, including digital photography and its use in multimedia productions.  4 cr., 1st sem. 		

COM JO 411: Professional Journalism Internship
           			Valuable on-the-job practice of journalism skills. Provides student with portfolio of professional work. The student works 150 hours per semester or summer at the internship. Assistance in placement; instructor must approve project. Comprehensive paper, employer evaluation, and portfolio required at end of semester. 		

COM JO 412: Professional Journalism Internship
		Valuable on-the-job practice of journalism skills. Provides student with portfolio of professional work. The student works 150 hours per semester or summer at the internship. Assistance in placement; instructor must approve project. Comprehensive paper, employer evaluation, and portfolio required at end of semester. 		

COM JO 413: Broadcast Journalism Internship
           			On-the-job observation and training at a news website, television, radio station  or network. Employer and student evaluations required at end of semester.		

COM JO 431: Video Enterprise Reporting
           			Broadcast journalism majors only.  Students will produce in depth video reports  similar to what is seen on network TV news magazine programs, news Web sites or  local television series. 4 cr., 2nd semester. 		

COM JO 435: Radio Newsroom Online
