COM CM 772: PRLab
		PRLab at Boston University is the nation's oldest student run public relations  agency. PRLab allows students to gain valuable industry experience in an agency  style setting, working in the corporate, nonprofit and government sectors.  Students engage in media relations, event planning, branding, copy editing,  content creation and social media management. Over the course of the semester,  students create professional portfolios. 		

COM CM 773: PR E-Board
		This course represents the management function of the student run PRLab. The PRLab  Executive board consists of a President, Vice President and several Account  Supervisors, who work together to facilitate the overall success of the student- client interactions and PRLab as a whole.  The E-Board is also responsible for  PRLab's branding and new business acquisition.		

COM CM 809: Graduate Internship
		Students are placed in public relations, advertising,  or communication  departments of business, educational, philanthropic, or governmental institutions.  Fifteen hours per week of supervised work. Students with a comprehensive report  evaluating internship experience at end of semester. 2 or 4 cr., either sem.		

COM CM 824: Technical Writing for Communication Research
		Teaches students to develop clear and concise research proposals and write detailed research reports incorporating appropriate methodological sequences, techniques, and strategies. Teaches students to interpret the results of quantitative analyses in layperson's terms and relate their implications to a client, as well as to analyze the standards and pricing structure of competing agencies and available subcontractors in a given market. 		

COM CM 831: International Communication
	Factors of international communication; cultural, economic, political, and social influences. Role of communication media in effecting social change in a wide variety of countries. 		

COM CM 901: Directed Studies
		Supervised reading, fieldwork, or research for student's specific needs.		

COM CM 909: Thesis or Project Research
				

COM CO 101: The World of Communication
           			Introduces students to many fundamental principles of communication.  Students also learn about the intertwined nature of communication professions as they explore the major fields of study in communication.  Guest lectures from various industries inform students of potential future career paths. CO101 is required of all students in the College of Communication, including transfer students, IUT students, and DDP students. Students must receive a "C" or higher in CO101 in order to proceed further into COM. 		

COM CO 102: Special Seminars
	COM 102 offers multiple sections each semester in a variety of student services, career services and technological topics. These ?added-value? seminars do not count toward graduation requirements, but do offer valuable insight and tools to be successful in your college career and beyond.		

COM CO 201: Introduction to Communication Writing
           			The College of Communication's core undergraduate writing course. Students refresh their grammatical and stylistic skills and apply those skills to professional writing assignments. Prepares students to write with clarity, conciseness, precision, and accuracy for the communication fields.		

COM CO 401: Radio Station Practicum
	This is  a seminar for students interested in managing the student-run radio station, WTBU.  It is open to students who serve on the executive board of WTBU.  Students will manage all facets of the radio station including music programing, sportscasting, news reporting, promotions, underwriting, website management, and technical equipment.  Students will learn how to accomplish specific goals in improving the professionalism of the station and increasing the audience of WTBU.  varilbe credit/ either sem.		

COM CO 704: Teaching Techniques
	Required for and open only to COM CO 101 graduate teaching assistants. Designed to acquaint teaching assistants with strategies for effective teaching and equip them with techniques for conducting the basic undergraduate communication course. Students increase their proficiency in leading discussion sections, appraising student progress, and handling problem situations. 		

COM EM 737: The MArketplace v. Regulation: Emerging Media and Communication Policy
	Social media and other forms of data creation and manipulation are posing  profound challenges to traditional legislative and regulatory arrangements.   Issues ranging from privacy to equal access, from spectrum allocation to market  concentration and from intellectual property to secrecy have become quite  contentious due to power of digital technologies.  Innovative services can  collect data in ways that can have poorly understood ramifications.  This course  surveys the laws and regulations that apply to emerging media and probes the  major policy issues in detail with a particular emphasis on the situation in the  U.S.  		

COM EM 747: Trending Insights: Social Data Analysis and Visualization
	This course familiarizes students with social -scientific methods for large  scale data analysis and visualization, including the application of relevant  user and concept networks, time and spatial models, sentiment mapping, and  comparison of matrices.  In addition, the use of germane software in emerging  and digital media research is developed.  Most importantly, however, this course  has a dual structure where students learn to not only carry our advanced  analyses of large datasets, they also engage with how to visually represent with  a wide-ranging skillset to scrape data, mine data, and present data in fields of  specific areas of inquiry.		

COM EM 761: Emergin Media Special Topics
	Selected issues in mobile communication and social media.  This course  investigates a series of emerging issues concerning the communication aspects of  mobile and social media technology.  Lectures by the instructor will be  supplemented by guest commentaries and discussion, field trips and the  presentation by students of their semester-long research projects.  There will  be extensive weekly reading assignments, weekly reaction papers and a term  paper.  The term paper is to be based on original inquiry and data collection.   Among the topics covered during the semester are public participation in  governmental policy via social media, the reception of new technology such as  Google Glass, personal privacy effects of big data, prospects for citizen  journalism, and the effects of mobile communication on social interaction.  By  the end of the semester, the student should have a firm grasp of selected issues  concerning mobile and social media from both a policy and behavioral  perspective.  Enrollment is by permission of instructor.  Students interested in  taking this course should contact Prof. Katz via email and include a brief  summarized their background and explain their interest in the topic.  		

COM EM 777: Extended Group Project Wrork Seminar
	This year long course introduces students to the theories, method and  conventions of applied research in communication and the social sciences.  It  aims to do this through reading, practical applications and in-class  discussions.  Students will have the opportunity to work with local organization  (the "project sponsor") in the Boston area to design and implement a research  project.  Throughout the process, students will work closely with their peers,  the sponsor and the course instructors to develop the project and to evaluate  work in progress.		

COM FT 201: Screen Language: The Aesthetics, Grammar and Rhetoric of the Moving Image
	This course is designed to help students communicate through audio, still images   and moving pictures.  We will study how films and photographs of various kinds   communicate ideas, tell stories, and convey artistic expression.  Students will   then be given many opportunities to demonstrate their own grasp of fundaments of   communication and storytelling through images, sounds and montage.  The aim of   this course is not simply to reinforce existing rules but rather to test the   validity of those norms.  Accordingly, students will be asked both to employ and   to violate conventions.  		

COM FT 250: Understanding Film
	Understanding Film will introduce students to key aesthetic aspects of film.   Students will explore a range of styles and genres in film, including narrative  and non-fiction forms, and dominant and alternative styles.  Students will also  study a variety of historical examples of theses different styles that  illustrate the expressive possibilities of image and sound.  Finally, students  will learn to analyze and write about these formal elements, viewing both  complete films and individual sequences.  		

COM FT 303: History of Television
	In this course we will examine the ways in which industrial factors and communication policies have shaped the medium that sits in 99% of U.S. homes.  We will begin by examining television's roots in radio.  The remainder of the course will be broken down into three stages of television history advanced by Rogers, Epstein and Reeves (2002). The first category is TVI- the period of three-network dominance.  The next stage, TVII, is characterized by the rise of cable television and the decentering of the three networks.  We will conclude the course by considering the current stage of television- TV III- in which the era of "on demand" has further destabilized traditional notions of content, audiences, producers, scheduling and technologies.  In addition to tracing this development historically and thematically, we will confront it critically, analyzing the connections between power and money in the medium of television.		

COM FT 304: Film Industry
	A survey of current business trends in the motion picture industry. Focuses on script development; studio structure; agents, attorneys, and contracts; independent filmmaking; and distribution. 		

