COM CM 301: Principles and Practices of Public Relations
	An introduction to the field of public relations: its theoretical origins, scope, and principles. Discussion focuses on researching problems, setting objectives, identifying audiences, designing messages, choosing communication channels, and evaluating results for all types of organizations. Ethical decision making, on-line communication, and career opportunities are also analyzed case studies in the field. The format is a combination of informal lecture and small-group discussion, case analysis, and guest lecture. 		

COM CM 303: Organizational Structure and Behavior
	Principles and practices in organizing and directing work flow in light of current findings from sociology, psychology, and industrial management studies. Topics covered include leadership, motivation, goal attainment, and other concepts against a background of organizational theory.		

COM CM 311: Professional Presentation
	Students will learn the essentials of effective presentation, from preparation  (audience analysis, content development) to critical thinking when presenting.   This course is designed to help students to incorporate theories and skills of  effective communication in a variety of contests.  Using a combination of  lecture, discussion and hands-on practice and simulation, this course is  designed to place students in common business and social settings that require a  mastery of oral presentation skills in order to be successful.  This course will  also include instruction on the effective use of presentation software and  interactive technology.		

COM CM 313: Corporate Communication
           			Explores the trends and issues affecting corporations, crisis management, public affairs communication, consumer affairs, employee relations, environmental problems, and issues of multinationals. Uses case studies. 		

COM CM 317: Introduction to Advertising
	Explores the history, nature, function, and social and economic aspects of advertising: ethical responsibilities, psychological appeals, marketing, media research, product analysis, creative strategies, and agency operation. Students prepare comprehensive advertising plans including marketing strategy and speculative advertising campaigns. 		

COM CM 321: Mass Communication Research
	Introduction to the philosophy and process of social-scientific research and the most common methods used to study mass communication. Includes a variety of research methods, an examination of data-analysis procedures, and an analysis of mass communication issues. 		

COM CM 323: Design and New Media
	Provides knowledge and practice for effective graphic design for all media.  Develops a foundation in design principles and software skills including Illustrator, Photoshop, and InDesign.  Students create projects demonstrating how graphic design is used to engage an audience and enhance comprehension of all forms of mass communication from traditional print to new media.  4 cr, either sem.		

COM CM 331: Writing for Communication
           			Intensive exposure to some of the basic writing formats in communications: news releases, letters, features, and profiles. Lead writing, editing, and techniques of interviewing. Extensive writing and rewriting. Develop basic writing skills for various audiences. 		

COM CM 345: Public Relations in Nonprofit Settings
           			Students examine the role of managed communication and marketing in public relations problems unique to health, education, and human and public service organizations. Analysis of organizational structure, publics, public relations and communication programs, and fund-raising practices of these agencies. 		

COM CM 380: Theory and Process of Communication
	Focuses on the processes and consequences of both interpersonal and mass communication and how they differ. Discussions include the nature of verbal and nonverbal communication and the role of language in cognitive processing. Review of the factors that have shaped the nature of contemporary media, their content, and their audiences. Examines theories of the process and effects of mass communication and how these related to the goals and activities of professional communicators. 		

COM CM 405: New &amp; Traditional Media Strategies
           			Examines media planning, buying, and sales as performed by advertising agencies, clients and the media.  Research sources providing data on media audiences and product usage are evaluated.  Examines contemporary trends in communications media and their effects on advertisers. 4 cr. either sem.		

COM CM 409: Persuasion and Public Opinion
	The theories, strategy, and techniques of persuasion as a means of shaping public opinion and attitudes. How individuals, business, government, and institutions craft messages and communicate through the press, entertainment media, advertising, and public relations. Ascertaining and understanding the beliefs, attitudes, and values of groups and society. 		

COM CM 410: NSAC
	National Student Advertising Competition gives students the opportunity to participate in organizing and managing and executing a real world marketing communications program for a major brand. The class will represent BU in a national competition held in late spring.  2 cr, either sem. 		

COM CM 411: Art Direction
           			A course for students interested in pursuing a creative career as an art director. Through real-world assignments, creative critiques, lectures and case studies, students strengthen conceptual and visual decision-making skills required to create effecive advertising communication. This is a hands-on, idea driven course. Assignment work product will include ideas executed in a range of media as well as package design and corporate identity. Experience using the industry graphics software will be helpful. 4 cr. On Demand		

COM CM 412: Consumer Insight &amp; Account Planning
           			Explores how to arrive at consumer insights that lead to better advertising and promotion.  The course focuses on the set of skills necessary to create breakthrough advertising, including qualitative research, observation, interviewing skills, mapping, and presentation tools.  Students learn to write effective, creative briefs.  4 cr. 2nd sem		

COM CM 416: Strategic Brand Solutions
           			Explores the impact of current advertising and marketing issues from business, economic, political, social, legal, and ethical perspectives. Modified case method, with lectures from experts on selected issues. 		

COM CM 417: Fundamentals of Creative Development
           			Focus is on the strategic creative process in advertising including concept development, copywriting, visualization, and design. Assignments require conceiving solutions to client marketing challenges across a range of media. Teaches foundations for development of effective advertising: problem definition, strategic development, and conceptual idea generation through tangible executions. 4 cr. either semester		

COM CM 419: Advertising Management
           			Administration of a complete advertising program. Case-study method used to explore the marketing mix, budgeting, medial strategy, planning, coordinating advertising with promotion, working with client or agency, and the social responsibility of advertisers. 		

COM CM 420: Ad Lab
           			Experience in student-run, full-service advertising agency. Students organize, manage, and perform all functions: solicit business, perform market and consumer research, contact clients, write plans, create advertising campaigns, evaluate media, and prepare campaign evaluations for community-service agencies. 		

COM CM 421: AdLab E-Board
           			This course represents the management function of the student-run AdLab.   2 or 4 cr., either sem.		

