COM FT 536: Film Theory and Criticism
	An introduction to classical and contemporary film and media theory.  Topics include montage theory, realism, structuralism, post-structuralism, semiotics, psychoanalysis, phenomenology, and cultural studies.  The course includes screenings of films that have contributed to critical debate and those that challenge theoretical presuppositions.		

COM FT 537: Third Wrld Cnma
			

COM FT 540: Screenplay as Dramatic Literature
	Screenplays may be read as literature as well as be produced as films. In this course the literary and dramatic art of the screenplay is analyzed, and the screenplay as a form is perceived to be nothing less than a little brother to stage play.		

COM FT 543: Television Situational Comedy
           			The American television situation comedy has been an enormously popular and  powerful art form.  This course traces the growth of the sitcom genre from the  beginnings in the early 1950's up to the present time and analyzes how American  life has been influenced by it.  We look at how sitcoms affected popular  perception of working class, race, ethnicity, idealized family life and then the  growth of different family structures, fantasy and war.  We study how sitcoms  initially portrayed women and then the emerging changes in response to the  feminist movement.  We analyze Norman Lear's series which talked about the real  things Americans were saying but in the privacy of their homes and the  revolution that his series created.  Finally we examine anti-family satire and  take a close look at contemporary single life, both straight and gay.		

COM FT 544: Documentary Production
		This course is designed to develop skills necessary for producing long-form  documentaries. There is an emphasis on exploring new, more engaging forms of  storytelling and a broad range of stylistic approaches.  It covers the entire  process: finding a topic, developing a story structure, conceiving a style,  shooting, editing, and post-production.  Students develop their own ideas and  form small groups to produce them. 		

COM FT 545: Television and Childhood
	Examines the important role played by television in child development and culture, with special reference to the provision and content of programming for children of different ages, from preschool to adolescence. 		

COM FT 546: New German Cine
			

COM FT 547: HISTAVANTGARDE1
			

COM FT 548: Antionionibergm
			

COM FT 549: The Profane
	Explores a wide variety of topics concerning censorship, feminist theory, feminism, psychoanalytical theories, pornography, voyeurism, repression, homosexuality, rape, body image, and national identities as exemplified through a large selection of films considered "Profane"/scandalous/ "X-rated", touching upon uncanny regions in which one is "never at home". Further discussion will include an examination of the cultural and historical factors that  serve as background for the themes explored and presented in the selected films.		

COM FT 550: Scandinavian Cinema
	This course traces the major discourses that have developed around the Dogme'95 movement. The major focus of this class is to study the work, vision, influences and contribution of Lars Von Trier to the New Scandinavian Cinema and its assorted practitioners. We will attempt to perceive and critique Von Trier's vision as a site for understanding cultural dynamics of European and American Societies. The course is organized chronologically to structure and present the development of both Trier's work and evolvement of the Dogme 95' movement. Some of the readings are assigned around those concerns.  		

COM FT 551: Designing the Short Film
	 This course explores the aesthetic and technical parameters of the short film format, with the goal of celebrating Short Film, as a genre in and of itself. 4cr. either sem.		

COM FT 552: Special Topics
	See the Department of Film and Televison for specifics. 		

COM FT 553: Special Topics
		Topics and instructors vary each semester.  Details are available from the Department of Film and Television.  Recent offerings have included Writing Episodic Drama.		

COM FT 554: Special Topics
	Details are available from the department of Film and Television. Topics and  instructor vary each semester. Recent topics have included the films of John  Cassavetes, Mike Leigh, and Rainer Fassbinder; the Blacklist; Low Brow Comedy.		

COM FT 555: The Narrative Documentary Practicum
	This practicum, designed for advanced film and television production students, focuses on the highly specialized filmmaking techniques used for the narrative documentary; that is, character-driven films about real people. The course also explores this tradition's rich legacy: from the Russians of the 1920s, through the CV movement of the 1960s, and on to the present day host of new films spawned by digital filmmaking technology.   		

COM FT 560: The Documentary
	Surveys the history of the documentary and the changes brought about by the advent of television. Examines the outlook for the documentary idea in national and international markets. Periodic highlighting of special areas such as the portrayal of war, historical events, drama-documentary, and propaganda. Students develop critical and professional skills. Lectures, screenings, discussions. 		

COM FT 561: Television Drama
	Surveys the history of television drama from its "live" beginnings in the 1950s to contemporary taped and filmed series, mini-series, and specials. The critical evaluation of such forms as sitcoms, soap operas, and regularly scheduled dramatic series from the perspective of the producer, writer, and director. Lectures, screenings, writing reviews, and discussions. 		

COM FT 563: French New Wave
	A comprehensive survey of the most important directors and films of this vital movement, which arguably changed the course of world cinema. Directors include Godard, Charbol, Rohmer, Truffaut, Resnais, and Varda.  In addition to class screenings, some outside viewing may be required.		

COM FT 565: Motion Picture Editing
		This is an advanced editing class in which students edit challenging and complex projects using Avid software. Students edit scenes from features and episodic television shows that were shot using single camera techniques, as well as multi-camera material, such as sitcoms and music concerts. Students learn rhythm and pacing, when and where to make a cut, how to increase the emotional content of a scene, ways to propel the story forward, and the proper use of sound, effects, titles and music. Students must have previously taken a production class that used Avid software.		

