COM FT 560: The Documentary
	Surveys the history of the documentary and the changes brought about by the advent of television. Examines the outlook for the documentary idea in national and international markets. Periodic highlighting of special areas such as the portrayal of war, historical events, drama-documentary, and propaganda. Students develop critical and professional skills. Lectures, screenings, discussions. 		

COM FT 561: Television Drama
	Surveys the history of television drama from its "live" beginnings in the 1950s to contemporary taped and filmed series, mini-series, and specials. The critical evaluation of such forms as sitcoms, soap operas, and regularly scheduled dramatic series from the perspective of the producer, writer, and director. Lectures, screenings, writing reviews, and discussions. 		

COM FT 563: French New Wave
	A comprehensive survey of the most important directors and films of this vital movement, which arguably changed the course of world cinema. Directors include Godard, Charbol, Rohmer, Truffaut, Resnais, and Varda.  In addition to class screenings, some outside viewing may be required.		

COM FT 565: Motion Picture Editing
		This is an advanced editing class in which students edit challenging and complex projects using Avid software. Students edit scenes from features and episodic television shows that were shot using single camera techniques, as well as multi-camera material, such as sitcoms and music concerts. Students learn rhythm and pacing, when and where to make a cut, how to increase the emotional content of a scene, ways to propel the story forward, and the proper use of sound, effects, titles and music. Students must have previously taken a production class that used Avid software.		

COM FT 567: Film Styles
	"Style" is a term that crops up routinely in discussions of film, but does it really mean anything? Through the careful study of a broad variety of films, we will compile a catalog of stylistic components which critic and filmmaker alike can use to think more clearly about this slippery concept. How does one create a style? How does style influence narrative? What tools does a director use to create a distinctive style? Using feature films and film clips, this course will answer these and other questions about film style.		

COM FT 569: Holocaust on Film
	Holocaust on Film examines the aesthetics of filmic texts which place the experience of the Holocaust at the center of their investigation.		

COM FT 573: BUTV
	Provides students with the opportunity to develop and product television programs for student television station BUTV10, and for student -operated production group, Growling Dog Productions.		

COM FT 574: BUTV
	Provides students with the opportunity to develop and produce television programs for closed-circuit and, possibly, cable-access distribution, and to produce low-budget videos for nonprofit organizations. 		

COM FT 575: Renoir&amp;Beunel
			

COM FT 576: Globalnewwaves
			

COM FT 577: Godard
			

COM FT 578: 3MASTERDIRECTRS
			

COM FT 579: Eurodirectors
			

COM FT 580: Subversvecine
			

COM FT 581: Thrdwrlddirctrs
			

COM FT 583: Filmtraumaloss
			

COM FT 593: Introduction to Cinematography
		Based on a fundamental knowledge of technical and creative procedures of film production, this course pays deeper attention to important elements of cinematography such as composition, raw stock, sensitometry, lighting, movement, colors, and space. Emphasis is on a conscious usage of pictorial elements in the picture-building process. 		

COM FT 701: Media in Evolution
	A course that examines the business of entertainment media industries. History, structure, business models, regulatory and social issues will be discussed.   An assessment of the emergence of new media businesses, and how technologies, that offer many new content distribution options, are changing the definition of traditional media. 4 cr. Fall		

COM FT 702: Script To Film
	Exclusive to Graduate Screenwriting students (required in 1st year.  An  introduction to the relationship between the written script and the image on  screen.  Through in-depth analysis, we will study screenplays, films and the  mind of the screenwriter in order to decipher the process of developing story  from character, plot and theme.  Students will be required to write expository  papers and present their own analysis of a chosen film.		

COM FT 703: Media Business Entrepreneurship
	This course will provide students with the practical knowledge and skills needed to heed the call of entrepreneurship. Classes will include guest speakers from various business sectors including venture capital professionals, angel investors, accountants, attorneys, marketing experts who are skilled in launch phases of PR, as well as media entrepreneurs who succeeded against all odds. Students will also participate in the development of a core business idea, from concept through the creation of a sound business plan as a final project/presentation. 4 cr. Fall		

