COM CM 423: Portfolio Development for Advertising
           			A course for students interested in the creative side of the advertising industry work in teams and individually to develop creative ideas, campaigns, and an entry-level portfolio of work (print, video, digital, mobile, experiential). A workshop-like environment, mirroring an advertising agency, is augmented with lectures and case studies. 4 cr. either semester		

COM CM 425: Advanced Copywriting
           			This course builds on the concept development and copywriting foundations learned in prerequisite courses.  Assignments will require the creation of copy for a range of audience segments and media channels. Students will learn to shape copy for video, digital, print, and social media. 4 cr. 1st semester		

COM CM 437: Portfolio Development II
           			A continuation of Portfolio Development I, this course continues the iterative process required to construct a competitive advertising portfolio. Students work to refine concepts, revise and strengthen the impact of the art direction and copywriting, and determine how the work should ultimately be displayed. 4 cr. 1st semester		

COM CM 441: Media Relations
           			Students study a variety of publicity tactics (news conferences, feature placements, special events, and media tours), which they combine into publicity campaign plans. Involves lectures, in-class discussions, video cases, and individual take-home cases. Students are encouraged to plan campaigns in their area of interest. 		

COM CM 443: New Media and PR
           			Explores the effects of new media on the fundamental theories, models, and practices of public relations.  Studies how websites, blogs, citizen journalism, social media, direct-to-consumer communication, podcasting, viral marketing, and other technology-enabled changes are affecting interpersonal, small group, and mass media relationships.  Also covers and uses the interactive tools that are re-defining the practice of public relations.  The course combines lecture, discussion, guest speakers, case study, and research to help students uncover and appreciate the power and potential of interactive media.  4 cr, either sem 		

COM CM 471: Communication Internship
           			Students are placed in advertising and public relations agencies, communication departments of firms, sales departments of firms, sales departments of media, and sales promotion agencies. Minimum of 15 hours per week during school semesters, or full time during the summer. Instructor and sponsor oversee student work. A comprehensive final report completes coursework. 		

COM CM 473: PRLab
           			PRLab at Boston University is the nation's oldest student run public relations  agency.  PRLab allows students to gain valuable industry experience in an agency  style setting, working in the corporate, nonprofit and government sectors.   Students engage in media relations, event planning, branding, copy editing,  content creation and social media management.  Over the course of the semester,  students create professional portfolios.		

COM CM 474: Directed Study
           			Individual or group project on specific problems in communication.		

COM CM 475: PR E-Board
           			This course represents the management function of the student run PRLab. The PRLab  Executive board consists of a President, Vice President and several Account  Supervisors, who work together to facilitate the overall success of the student- client interactions and PRLab as a whole.  The E-Board is also responsible for  PRLab's branding and new business acquisition.		

COM CM 481: Law of Communication
	Study of the laws that apply to communication practitioners. Topics covered include the First Amendment, defamation, invasion of privacy, copyright, regulation of advertising, obscenity, and indecency, and the emerging field of cyberspace law. 4 cr, 2nd sem 		

COM CM 508: Video Production for Marketing Communication
	An introduction to the techniques and principles used in designing and directing video productions for advertising and public relations purposes. Use of videography, composition, color, lighting, editing, sound, and special effects in producing news releases, interviews, talk shows, and commercials. 		

COM CM 510: Computers in Communication
	This course introduces students to using new media tools as a source and vehicle for creating expression and media communication.  Students will acquire building blocks for design thinking and hands-on skills to successfully communicate ideas using media technology.  Students will experience the design process:  ideation to execution.  Topics on Media Technology, interface design, information architecture, and interaction design will be covered.  4 cr, either sem.		

COM CM 513: Investor Relations
		Students examine the challenges of marketing a company to the financial community. The course is broken down into three areas: the development of IR as a profession; the tools of the trade, such as bonds and stocks; and the field's communication techniques. Students prepare case analyses as a way of understanding various SEC disclosure requirements, communication with analysts and the media, and financial marketing techniques. Core public relations requirements should be fulfilled before taking this course. 		

COM CM 514: New Communication Technologies
	Course prepares students for careers in an environment of constant technological development and institutional change. Provides an overview of current and near-future developments in telecommunications; a theoretical base and exercise in systems analysis for assessing the potential uses and importance of these technologies in media-related institutions; and consideration of legal, regulatory, and social issues which these technologies and their uses may raise for telecommunications and media industries and society in general. 		

COM CM 515: Community Relations
		A complete examination of the evolution of community relations, the theory behind it, and the techniques employed by its professionals. Using a case-study approach, students learn how to select a site for expansion; conduct a community relations audit; work with state, local, and federal governments; and develop sound relationships with the media and with advocacy groups in the corporate and nonprofit arenas. 		

COM CM 518: Creating Video Campaigns
		Techniques for creating television advertising that attract and hold viewer attention. Students create advertising concepts, write commercials, prepare storyboards, and consider the problems of casting, directing, editing, and testing. 		

COM CM 519: Interactive Marketing Communications
		An overview of the theories, practices and techniques in the emerging field of interactive marketing communications (IAMC). Students gain an understanding of the strategy and tactics of IAMC and its place in the more comprehensive business of marketing communications.  in addition students review IAMC's relationship to and its effect on society, culture and the economic system.  4 cr, either sem.		

COM CM 520: the COMmunicator
