COM CO 101: The World of Communication
           			Introduces students to many fundamental principles of communication.  Students also learn about the intertwined nature of communication professions as they explore the major fields of study in communication.  Guest lectures from various industries inform students of potential future career paths. CO101 is required of all students in the College of Communication, including transfer students, IUT students, and DDP students. Students must receive a "C" or higher in CO101 in order to proceed further into COM. 		

COM CO 102: Special Seminars
	COM 102 offers multiple sections each semester in a variety of student services, career services and technological topics. These ?added-value? seminars do not count toward graduation requirements, but do offer valuable insight and tools to be successful in your college career and beyond.		

COM CO 201: Introduction to Communication Writing
           			The College of Communication's core undergraduate writing course. Students refresh their grammatical and stylistic skills and apply those skills to professional writing assignments. Prepares students to write with clarity, conciseness, precision, and accuracy for the communication fields.		

COM CO 401: Radio Station Practicum
	This is  a seminar for students interested in managing the student-run radio station, WTBU.  It is open to students who serve on the executive board of WTBU.  Students will manage all facets of the radio station including music programing, sportscasting, news reporting, promotions, underwriting, website management, and technical equipment.  Students will learn how to accomplish specific goals in improving the professionalism of the station and increasing the audience of WTBU.  varilbe credit/ either sem.		

COM CO 704: Teaching Techniques
	Required for and open only to COM CO 101 graduate teaching assistants. Designed to acquaint teaching assistants with strategies for effective teaching and equip them with techniques for conducting the basic undergraduate communication course. Students increase their proficiency in leading discussion sections, appraising student progress, and handling problem situations. 		

