COM JO 703: Magazine Writing
	This is a course in long-form magazine journalism such as appears in the New Yorker, Harpers, Rolling Stone, Outside, and the New York Times Magazine, among other publications. The class reads and analyzes superb examples of the genre and reports, researches and writes long-from pieces of its own. Among the issues addressed in depth are: intensive, in-depth reporting and research; the writing process; the use of fine language and the development of a personal voice; the importance of a point of view; structuring long pieces; digging deeply into subjects in order to truly enlighten readers. Also discussed is a reporting and writing strategy rooted in the methods of anthropology and ethnography.  Other issues: the importance of complexity, the organic development of characters, the nature of narrative, the depiction of otherness and difference; the use of empathy; ?mindful? journalism; and the development of relationships with sources through deep preparation, emotional connectedness, and conversation (instead of Q &amp; A).		

COM JO 704: Online Journalism for Graduate Students
	Required of journalism majors. This course introduces students to reporting,     writing and creating multi-platform journalism. Students will gain practical  experience producing and editing news and features for delivery via digital  platforms.  This class will critique and analyze news sites and examine how  multiple elements such as text, photo's audio, video, social media and  interactive graphics are currently used in multimedia reporting. 4 cr, either  sem.		

COM JO 705: Science Unbound-Writing at the Edges of Science and Society
	A course in which students read, think and write about several areas where   science and society interact, how that interaction has played out in the media   and how that has affected the public's perceptions and policy decisions.  We'll   examine three thematic areas in which science has has a particularly prickly   relationship with the media, perhaps because they touch on primal emotions:(1)   Uncertainly and Doubt, (2) Hope and Fear, and, (3) Truth and justice.  Students   will also complete a series of short to medium length magazine style pieces  suitable for front of the book sections of popular publications- such as Wired,  Discover, Technology and New Scientist.		

COM JO 707: Writing and Reporting for Broadcast News
	this introductory course is about reporting, writing and producing the news for  broadcast.  Students learn the fundamentals of news-gathering.  They report,  shoot, write, edit and produce news packages.  Topics range from breaking news  stories to political coverage and features.  Strong stories air on BUTV's  newscast and are posted on BUNS- the BU News Service website.  The course begins  with the basics: story generation, fact gathering, videography, writing,editing  and presentation.		

COM JO 712: Online Radio Newsroom
	Students produce a half-hour LIVE news show on the student radio station, WTBU, during each class. Students report, write, produce and engineer all the news, sports and commentary in the program on deadline. Students from London and State House programs file stories for the news show. Students are expected to file frequently and to critique programs from NPR, BBC, WBZ and other audio news outlets. The best productions will be pitched to WBUR and State House clients for their websites. 4 cr, 1st sem.  		

COM JO 718: Magazine Workshop
		This final magazine writing course is designed to create a published magazine as a writing portfolio for students. This is a studio course, taught by two professors, which covers writing and design in a setting that captures the dynamics of professional practice. Students within each group, assume professional positions and conceptualize, write, edit, design, and publish magazines. Magazines are designed and published using QuarkXPress and Adobe Photoshop. Design concepts and techniques, along with computer programs used in this course, are taught with step by step instructions. 4 cr 2nd sem		

COM JO 719: Feature Writing
		Writing feature articles for newspapers, magazines and other media. Covers markets open to free-lance writers, published articles, newspaper feature sections, and Sunday supplements. 		

COM JO 721: Journalism Principles and Techniques
	Required. Students acquire techniques of newswriting and reporting by covering a full range of news stories in a laboratory situation. Stress on deadline pressure, writing, and reporting. Includes weekly seminar on journalism principles as illustrated by current events and controversies. 		

COM JO 722: Advanced Journalism Seminar
		Required. Newswriting and reporting in Boston and surrounding communities. Students cover working beats.		

COM JO 723: Science Newswriting I
	Students develop experience in writing about science, technology, and medicine for the consumer press. At instructor's option, students may write scripts for broadcast and/or articles for publication in scientific, professional, or business magazines and periodicals. 		

COM JO 724: Science in the Crosshairs
	This course guides students toward writing short, pithy features and reports on  issues of scientific controversy, introducing students to the technical basics  of short form narrative, while also taking a hard look at a number of scientific  issues.  Also a refresher unit on statistics and one on the politics of  scientific journals.  The focus will be on learning to think, report, research  and write as a journalist while at the same time building a sound understanding  of some of the most critical issues of our day.  Students will be expected to  produce four pieces of writing- ranging from brief expository pieces to a fully  formed profile.		

COM JO 727: Special Studies
			

COM JO 732: Conflict and Commentary in Science Reporting
	A course in writing about science policy issues, including in-depth coverage of  controversial issues and writing scientific-related essay, such as those that  appear in Slate and Salon.  classroom discussions will involve complex areas of  science reporting, including scientific fraud and business issues related to  science.		

COM JO 733: Enterprise Reporting
	Students will produce in depth video reports similar to what is seen on network  TV news magazine programs, news web sites or local television series.  Review of  job trends in the industry and how to produce a resume/reel website.		

COM JO 734: Broadcast Journalism I: Television News Production
	Introduction to basic techniques of video news, with emphasis on function of the  writer. Includes on-air techniques, editing, and feature and documentary planning  and production. 		

COM JO 735: Professional Project
	Required of all graduate broadcast concentrators.  Production of a broadcast- ready portfolio project demonstrating strong writing, research and multimedia  skills.  Students choose a news topic to report, whether in the form of a video  or radio documentary, a  multimedia website, a series of video or radio reports  or a multimedia app.  Individual faculty members supervise this capstone project  during the course of the semester.		

COM JO 736: TV News Magazine
		Students produce, anchor, and report a single-topic news magazine program,  broadcast on deadline.  Students advance their anchoring skills by preparing a  half-hour program featuring video and live reports.		

COM JO 737: Journalism Internship
	Required broadcast, print, magazine, online or photo internship under supervision  of faculty.		

COM JO 738: Business &amp; Economics Internship
	Required internship under supervision of faculty.		

COM JO 754: Science Journalism Internship
	To be taken during the summer between second and third semesters of the program  and then registered during the third semester.		

