COM CM 525: Public Relations Ethics
		This course will acquaint students with ethical standards and expectations society has for public relations practitioners.  Through the study of case studies and other readings it will prepare students so they can adequately wrestle with ethical complexities, dilemmas and ambiguities so as to form persona ethical underpinnings for their future careers.		

COM CM 527: Strategic Creative Development
		Today's rapidly changing digital and media landscape calls for strategic and creative solutions that take into consideration emerging consumer behaviors and the new technologies that enable them. In this course, students create content and campaigns that consider the many different ways in which brands engage with their communities - paid and earned media, mobile apps, and branded utility. 4 cr. 2nd semester		

COM CM 528: Organizational Communication
	Develops both theoretical understanding and practical knowledge of internal organizational communication. Topics include motivation, leadership, organizational climate, formal and informal channels, management, and relational communication in an organizational context. Organizational communication assessment and change is emphasized. 		

COM CM 529: Design &amp; New Media II
           			Professional opportunities in the communication industry are constantly evolving and require graduates who are innovative, visually literate, and flexible with technology solutions.  In this course, students develop advanced  design and new media skills while participating in multi-media lectures, critiques, and hands-on software skill building. While implementing idividualized creative processes, students develop strategic projects from concept through to functional new media campaigns. The projects are continually updated to prepare students for emerging opportunities in the communications industry. 		

COM CM 535: Political Campaigning
	Critical evaluation of political campaign strategies and tactics within the sociopolitical environment. The roles of campaign managers, media consultants, pollsters, press secretaries, and field operatives are studied. Analysis of the impact of press coverage, political advertising, and candidate debates on the electorate. 		

COM CM 536: Sports Communication
	Introduces students to the tactics and strategies used in implementing sports information or public relations campaigns in the specialized areas of professional and amateur athletics.  Students should have strong writing ability.		

COM CM 555: Writing for Multimedia
		In-depth focus on promotional, client-based writing.  Course includes developing story ideas and angles; writing off and online feature stories and slide shows for trade, business, and special-interest market as well as researching and writing a treatment/script video package with accompanying brochure.  Also includes numerous multimedia workshops. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM CM 557: Media Effects
		This course introduces the study of the effects of media on individuals and on  society.  This course will overview a broad range of media theories that have  examined media as a social force, that have explored factors that affect  individuals' selection of and perceptions of media messages, and that have  studied how media affect viewers' attitudes, beliefs, and behaviors.  These  theories will be used to examine a variety of different types of content,  including media violence, portrayals of race and gender, politics, advertising,  and entertainment, among others.  4 cr., 1st sem.		

COM CM 561: Special Topics in Mass Communication
		Intensive exploration of specialized applications of communication skills.  4 cr.,  either sem.		

COM CM 701: Contemporary Public Relations
	Foundations of professional principles and practice in public relations for corporate, governmental, and nonprofit organizations. Includes history, organization, and scope of the field; its roots in social science; types of campaigns and programs; and professional ethics. Theories, strategies, and tactics in current practice emphasized. Explores opportunities and requirement for work in the field. 		

COM CM 702: Advertising and Society
	Analyzes the impact of advertising on individuals and society and evaluates the ethical, moral, and legal questions relating to the advertising industry.  The history of advertising and the rise of consumerism will be studied to create a paradigm for understanding the social effects of advertising.  Students will study the issues of advertising in cyberspace and question of privacy and protection from intrusive communication messages.		

COM CM 704: Contemporary Mass Communication
	The history, practices, business models and technologies of contemporary mass media. Topics include mass media?s forms, content, audiences and social effects; the state and fate of the printed word; the ups and downs of the Internet; media consolidation and the growing movement toward synergy; the future of independent media; and ethical and moral issues created by new technologies and old economic pressures.  4 cr, 1st sem		

COM CM 705: Writing for International Students
	Introduction to basic formats, including news releases, editorials, features, profiles, articles, and other forms of writing. Emphasis on basic copy quality in American English. Students learn to analyze and rewrite their own copy. 		

COM CM 707: Writing for Media Professionals
	Serves as introductory graduate level writing course.  Exposure to a variety of off and online writing formats in communications including:  news releases, e-pitches, blogs, features (off and online), microsites, websites, brochures, broadcast PSA?s, slide shows, videos,  off and online writing (including social media) strategies, editing, and interview techniques.  Extensive writing and rewriting.  Develops comprehensive writing skills for public relations, mass communication and advertising majors. 4 cr, 1st sem		

COM CM 708: Principles and Practices of Advertising
	Overview of the nature, function, practice, and social, economic, and behavioral aspects of advertising. Student teams develop advertising plans, create campaigns, and explore problems of account management, creativity, production, and ethics. 		

COM CM 709: Corporate Public Affairs
		Monitoring sociopolitical environment, managing corporate crises and confrontations, analyzing issues, formulating political strategies, developing programs of advocacy advertising, constituency communications, and public involvement. Case studies used. 		

COM CM 710: Communication Theory
	Examines origins, nature, and consequences of human communication. Reviews nature of verbal, nonverbal, and other types of group communication issues. Traces the development of speech, writing, printing, broadcasting, and digital media. Reviews theories of the process and effects of mass communication and how these theories apply to the work of media professionals. 		

COM CM 712: Consumer Insight &amp; Account Planning
		Explores how to arrive at consumer insights that lead to better advertising and promotion.  The course focuses on the set of skills necessary to create breakthrough advertising, including qualitative research, observation, interviewing skills, mapping and presentation tools. Students learn to write effective, creative briefs. 4 cr. 1st sem		

COM CM 713: Law of Communication
	Study of the laws that apply to communication practitioners. Topics include the First Amendment, defamation, invasion of privacy, copyright, free press/fair trial, reporter's privilege, access to information, regulation of advertising and Internet law.		

COM CM 714: Oral Presentation
