COM FT 849: Film Production I
	A practical, hands-on introduction to film production techniques. Lectures and demonstrations cover such topics as cinematography, studio and location lighting, sound recording, transferring, bench and flatbed editing, and sound mixing. Workshops and assignments coincide with lectures to give students practical experience and extensive hands-on training. Each student produces a short 16 mm film, which must be brought to the interlock stage (edited picture and separate mixed magnetic sound track) by the end of the semester. 		

COM FT 850: Film Production II
		Students master the equipment and techniques of synchronous sound filming. Using a range of professional sync cameras and Nagra tape recorders, students complete several shooting and editing assignments and, working in groups of three, write and produce a short dramatic film. Emphasis is placed on shooting coverage of scenes to allow for dramatic editing possibilities. 		

COM FT 851: Thesis Preparation
	This course, required of second semester film production graduate students, explores the aesthetic and technical parameters of the short film format with the goal of celebrating the short form as a genre unto itself.  Students also develop and write their thesis scripts in preparation for thesis production the following year.		

COM FT 852: Thesis Project
	Devoted to completion of thesis projects in film production and film studies.		

COM FT 855: Telecommunication Seminars
		Seminars by individual faculty members on topics of their choice, normally ones in which they are engaged in research or special study. Not more than two such seminars are offered in any one semester. Subjects and instructors announced before registration.		

COM FT 856: Telecommunication Seminars
		Seminars by individual faculty members on topics of their choice, normally ones in which they are engaged in research or special study. Not more than two such seminars are offered in any one semester. Subjects and instructors announced before registration.		

COM FT 951: Directed Studies
		Individual projects: opportunity for advanced graduate students who have completed a major portion of their degree requirements to engage in in-depth tutorial study with specific faculty in an area not normally covered by regular curriculum offerings.		

COM FT 952: Directed Studies
		Individual projects: opportunity for advanced graduate students who have completed a major portion of their degree requirements to engage in in-depth tutorial study with specific faculty in an area not normally covered by regular curriculum offerings.		

COM FT 953: Internship
	On-the-job experience at television stations, film and video production studios, networks, cable television operations, advertising agencies, radio stations, and corporations. Can be taken in the Boston area after the first semester of matriculation and anywhere in the country during the summer. 		

