COM JO 524: Broadcast Sports Journalism
	Using the most effective and up-to-date technology, JO524 students produce a  weekly sports show "SportsNight." The emphasis will be on team work in producing,  writing, editing and presenting sports. Each week, you?ll be assigned a different  task and position to perform, an integral way to learn how a news/feature program  is produced. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 525: Media Law and Ethics
	An examination of the many ethical issues and dilemmas that face reporters, editors, and producers and how to resolve them with professional integrity. Danger of actions for contempt or defamation, laws of copyright and intellectual property. 		

COM JO 527: Art of Narrative Nonfiction
	An intensive seminar and workshop into techniques and strategies of narrative non-fiction reporting and writing. These would include: interviewing for narrative, creating a workable structure for long-form writing, understanding the concept of arch of narrative, developing scenes and description and understanding  the elements of revision.		

COM JO 530: Drafts of History
           			Journalism has been called "the first rough draft of history." We consider several  episodes from U.S. history and examine how the first drafts written by journalists  compare to subsequent drafts written by historians. We analyze how new evidence  and chronological distance alter understanding of important events. 4 cr., 1st  sem.		

COM JO 532: Sports Journalism Seminar Series
	Explore the issues that writers and broadcasters face as they pursue their careers in sports journalism. Each week, we invite working professionals to join us on campus discussing such topics as ethics, sports and its place in society, reporting, women in sports and how to find that first job. Students are expected to ask thoughtful questions and will be required to write an evaluation each week. A great opportunity to start the networking process. 4 cr, 1st sem.		

COM JO 533: The Essay
	This is a course about the conception, development, and expression of ideas through language. In the final analysis, the course puts front and center the process of thinking about such ideas and then persuading others of their importance and rectitude. Among the issues addressed are: the logic and structure of arguments; the articulation of a ?stance?; development of the tone, style and elegance of writing; and the parrying of counterarguments even before they are stated. Students read and analyze a variety of essays on a number of subjects, including, film, domestic politics, cultural issues, war and peace, theatre and fine arts, sexual politics, human relationships, and the training of dogs. Among the authors whose work gets read are Susan Sontag, Simon Schama, Chuck Klosterman, Ellen Willis, Woody Allen, Nick Hornby, Garry Wills, Francis Fukuyama, Joan Didion, Hannah Arendt, Samuel Huntington, and Jean-Paul Sartre. 4 cr, either sem.  		

COM JO 534: Broadcast News for Nonmajors
	Basic instruction in producing video news reports for television and/or the Internet designed for students who are not majoring in broadcast journalism. 4 cr, 2nd sem.    		

COM JO 535: Investigative and Project Reporting
	Investigative and Project Reporting is an advanced seminar that will teach  select students the practice of depth reporting and writing. Students will use a  variety of reporting techniques ? from computer database searches to shoe  leather -- in pursuit of long-term projects ideally destined for publication in  one of several professional publications that have entered into cooperative  agreements with the Boston University Department of Journalism. Among them are  The Boston Globe, Boston Magazine and the Boston Phoenix. Story subjects will  range from public system failures to questionable convictions, narrative  reconstructions to explanatory journalism. 4 cr, 2nd sem 		

COM JO 537: Digital Photography Fundamentals
		Students plan, discuss, photograph, write, and lay out picture stories in black and white and/or color.		

COM JO 538: Feature Writing
		Writing feature articles for newspapers, magazines and other media. Covers markets open to free-lance writers, published articles, newspaper feature sections, and Sunday supplements. Offered only in the summer, for undergraduates and graduate students.		

COM JO 542: the Literature of Journalism
	This course examines the works of prominent literary journalists, and explores   different voices and styles in the genre. The course also seeks to track the   evolution of nonfiction narrative in American journalism, starting with Mark Twain   and continuing to the present.  		

COM JO 545: Reporting Military Affairs
	The role of the press in covering international conflicts, as well as the responsibilities of the press to cover military policies, procedures, and programs during peacetime. 		

COM JO 546: Statehouse Program
	The prime component of The Boston Statehouse Program, this advanced study in government and political reporting offers the opportunity to write and report from Beacon Hill for a Massachusetts daily. The course goal is to develop writing and reporting skills through the daily experience of covering state government. Students acquire the skills necessary to work in a daily news environment, including interviewing, developing sources, archival research and deadline writing.		

COM JO 550: Advanced Online Journalism
           			This course focuses on producing long-form, interactive multimedia news. Working in teams, print, broadcast and photojournalism students learn to produce documentary style multimedia packages that combine still photography, audio, video and text. The course will offer an overview of techniques and best practices currently employed by news organizations to produce advanced multimedia projects for the web. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM JO 702: Advanced Science Writing
	Students learn to research, organize, and write a major magazine article of publishable quality. Projects for the course, with appropriate revision, may be submitted in lieu of a separate master's project. 		

COM JO 703: Magazine Writing
	This is a course in long-form magazine journalism such as appears in the New Yorker, Harpers, Rolling Stone, Outside, and the New York Times Magazine, among other publications. The class reads and analyzes superb examples of the genre and reports, researches and writes long-from pieces of its own. Among the issues addressed in depth are: intensive, in-depth reporting and research; the writing process; the use of fine language and the development of a personal voice; the importance of a point of view; structuring long pieces; digging deeply into subjects in order to truly enlighten readers. Also discussed is a reporting and writing strategy rooted in the methods of anthropology and ethnography.  Other issues: the importance of complexity, the organic development of characters, the nature of narrative, the depiction of otherness and difference; the use of empathy; ?mindful? journalism; and the development of relationships with sources through deep preparation, emotional connectedness, and conversation (instead of Q &amp; A).		

COM JO 704: Online Journalism for Graduate Students
	Required of journalism majors. This course introduces students to reporting,     writing and creating multi-platform journalism. Students will gain practical  experience producing and editing news and features for delivery via digital  platforms.  This class will critique and analyze news sites and examine how  multiple elements such as text, photo's audio, video, social media and  interactive graphics are currently used in multimedia reporting. 4 cr, either  sem.		

COM JO 705: Science Unbound-Writing at the Edges of Science and Society
	A course in which students read, think and write about several areas where   science and society interact, how that interaction has played out in the media   and how that has affected the public's perceptions and policy decisions.  We'll   examine three thematic areas in which science has has a particularly prickly   relationship with the media, perhaps because they touch on primal emotions:(1)   Uncertainly and Doubt, (2) Hope and Fear, and, (3) Truth and justice.  Students   will also complete a series of short to medium length magazine style pieces  suitable for front of the book sections of popular publications- such as Wired,  Discover, Technology and New Scientist.		

COM JO 707: Writing and Reporting for Broadcast News
	this introductory course is about reporting, writing and producing the news for  broadcast.  Students learn the fundamentals of news-gathering.  They report,  shoot, write, edit and produce news packages.  Topics range from breaking news  stories to political coverage and features.  Strong stories air on BUTV's  newscast and are posted on BUNS- the BU News Service website.  The course begins  with the basics: story generation, fact gathering, videography, writing,editing  and presentation.		

COM JO 712: Online Radio Newsroom
	Students produce a half-hour LIVE news show on the student radio station, WTBU, during each class. Students report, write, produce and engineer all the news, sports and commentary in the program on deadline. Students from London and State House programs file stories for the news show. Students are expected to file frequently and to critique programs from NPR, BBC, WBZ and other audio news outlets. The best productions will be pitched to WBUR and State House clients for their websites. 4 cr, 1st sem.  		

