COM FT 492: Directed Studies
           			Individual projects; opportunity for advanced students who have completed a major portion of their degree requirements to engage in-depth tutorial study with specific faculty in an area not normally covered by regular curriculum offerings. 		

COM FT 493: Internship
           			Opportunity for students to gain professional experience at television and radio stations, film and video production houses, and other media institutions. Responsibilities vary. Availability depends on market needs. 		

COM FT 494: Internship
           			Opportunity for students to gain professional experience at television and radio stations, film and video production houses, and other media institutions. Responsibilities vary. Availability depends on market needs. 		

COM FT 502: Sound Design for Film and Television
		A comprehensive technical examination of the role of sound as an emotional motivator and major storytelling component in both fiction and nonfiction films. Covers location sound recording, acoustic theory, track building, foley and dialog replacement, and mix preparation, as well as music editing and composition. Introduces a variety of postproduction pathways and technologies, including current digital innovations in the field and in audio postproduction, and provides an ongoing workshop for solving editing and track building problems. 		

COM FT 504: Post production FX Editing
		This course teaches all aspects of video post production including window dubbing, rough cuts, A/B editing, non-linear editing, digital graphics, digital sound, and the integration of all of these processes and technologies that apply to the postproduction completion of video projects. Familiarity with Macintosh computers is desirable. Experience with video timecode editing is a necessity. 		

COM FT 505: Television Production Hothouse
		This is a class that operates as a student-run, client-driven production company. Projects include PSA?s for local TV stations, fundraising videos for non-profits, an occasional music video, and documentary shorts. From time to time, there will be national competitions for student productions. No application letter is necessary. 3.0 GPA required. 4 credits only.		

COM FT 507: Television Studio Production
           			Continuation of television studio production and the development of those formats that are best suited to it.  Emphasizes the creative use of studio technology. 4 cr, either sem.		

COM FT 509: Joseph Losey
			

COM FT 511: Davidcronenberg
			

COM FT 512: Writing Episodic Drama
           			Deals with the process and techniques of writing a dramatic series for commercial network and cable television.  Students will select a current prime-time drama, develop A, B, and (possibly) C stories for an episode, and complete a Writer's Draft and polished First Draft, suitable for a Writer Portfolio.  Lectures will include the life of a working television writer, one-hour story, structure, genres, and character development.  We will view and analyze TV series from the past and present, and focus on proper drama script format, character development and voice.  		

COM FT 513: Polish Cinema
			

COM FT 514: Advanced Writing for Television
		Prereq FT 512 or FT 522. Explores the development and creation of the Television Series Pilot. Each student will pitch a concept, write a treatment and a finished pilot script for an original series, either comedy or drama. Emphasis on premise, story structure, characterization and originality. Lectures, screenings, script readings, written assignments and critiques. 4 cr. 2nd sem.		

COM FT 515: International TV
	Survey of telecommunications in various nations; analysis of the impact of cultural, economic, demographic, and political factors on both their internal and external operation. Also explored is the dynamic international telecommunications field, its impact on understanding and commerce between nations, and its meaning for the United States. 		

COM FT 517: Television Management
		The responsibilities that television and multi-platform content managers face. Research, programming, revenue, regulatory issues and ethics are all explored. Lectures, readings, case studies, and visits from professionals develop the student's understanding of a variety of managerial functions and the challenges these functions entail. 4 cr. Fall/spring		

COM FT 520: Tv Theor &amp; Crit
           					

COM FT 522: Writing Television Situation Comedy Scripts
		Intense writing workshop learning how to write professional sitcom scripts.  Elements of character, dramatic story structure, how comedy is created, how  scenes build and progress a story, formal story outlines, dialogue, the business  of sitcom writing, pitching, arc, comedic premise are analyzed. The class  becomes a sitcom writing team for a current hit series and writes an original  class spec script to understand the process of group writing employed on most  sitcoms. Also, students write their own personal spec scripts with individual  conferences with the professor.		

COM FT 523: Understanding Marketing and Sales
	A comprehensive look into the business of television and radio sales and marketing. Respected professionals occasionally guest-lecture on this important and ever changing area.		

COM FT 524:  Golden Age of Television
	Course examines the extraordinary explosion of talent and creativity in live  television's early days. It covers writers such as Paddy Chayefsky and Rod  Serling, personalities like Edward R. Murrow, entertainers Sid Caesar, Milton  Berle, Groucho Marx, Gertrude Berg, and Lucille Ball, live political broadcasts  and blacklisting, and most significantly the great anthology series like Philco  Television Playhouse, Studio One, Playhouse 90 which presented great and  original American teleplays "Marty", "Requiem for a Heavyweight", "Patterns",  "The Comedian", "The Defenders", and many more.  Also covered are the great  early TV directors John Frankenheimer, Alfred Hitchcock, Delbert Mann and actors  who began their careers in television like Paul Newman, Ed Begley, and James  Dean.  We also look at the quiz show scandals and unique series like "The  Twilight Zone." These live television shows (seen by kinescope) are of major  importance in understanding the history of television.		

